GOOD
EVENING AND WELCOME TO THE
AUGUST 15 MEETING OF THE ANN
ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU&apos;RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
, I PLEDGE
ALLEGIANCE TO THE FLAG OF THE
UNITED STATES, AMERICA AND TO
THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH IT
STANDS ONE NATION WITH LIBERTY
AND JUSTICE FOR ALL BUT OUR
CLERK PLEASE CALL THE ROLE
OF COUNSEL COUNCIL MEMBER
HAYNER HERE TELLS OF OUR DEATH
HERE GRISWOLD GRISWOLD YOUR
SONG HERE COUNTERPROGRAM APSA
RAVINA HERE MARTELA HERE
ELSEWHERE I HEAR COUNCILMAN
ELSOM HERE FABRIC&apos;S HERE
ELSEWHERE AMAWI HERE WE HAVE A
QUORUM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
MAY HAVE A MOTION PLEASE TO
APPROVE THE AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNSEL SECONDED BY COUNCILMAN
GRISWOLD DISCUSSION THE AGENDA
ON FAVOR POSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY FROM OUR
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
.
MR. MAYOR, THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT.
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL
INTEREST, TO SPEAK OF PUBLIC
COMMENT RESERVE TIME ONE NEEDS
TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE BY
CONTACTING OUR CITY SPEAKERS
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TIME YOU CAN ONLY
HAVE ONE PERSON SPEAKING AT A
TIME.
OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU AND
FOLKS MAY NOT DELEGATE THEIR
TIME TO OTHERS WHEN YOU HAVE
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING THE
LIGHT WILL IDENTIFY THAT YOUR
TIME IS GETTING CLOSE TO DONE
WHEN THE BEEP GOES YOUR TIME&apos;S
EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
NATHAN CHESTERMAN
.
GOOD EVENING EVERYONE.
MY NAME IS NATHAN CHESTERMAN.
I&apos;VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR FOR
ABOUT EIGHT YEARS.
I DID TWO DEGREES HERE AND I
WORK FOR MATHEMATICA POLICY
RESEARCH JUST ACROSS THE
STREET.
I WANT TO TELL YOU ABOUT
SOMETHING I&apos;M GOING THROUGH
RIGHT NOW AND WHY YOU SHOULD
INTRODUCE AND PASS THE RIGHT TO
RENEW ORDINANCE WHICH IS ON
TONIGHT&apos;S AGENDA ITEM DC FOUR.
SO THIS PAST SPRING I EMAILED
MY LANDLORD TO RENEW MY LEASE
AND THEY TOLD ME THAT THEY HAD
LEASED MY HOUSE TO SOMEONE ELSE
.
THEY HAD GIVEN ME NO NOTICE
THAT THEY HAD LISTED THE HOUSE,
NO NOTIFICATION THAT IT WAS
TIME TO RENEW THE LEASE AND NO
REASON WHY THEY HAD LEASED MY
HOME TO SOMEONE ELSE.
MY ROOMMATES ARE QUIET AND
CLEAN SO ESSENTIALLY THE OUR
LANDLORDS DID THE AND THE FACT
IS THAT THEY EVICTED US WITH NO
COST.
UM, I AM ACTUALLY IN THE MIDDLE
OF MY MOVE RIGHT NOW BUT I
THOUGHT IT WAS IMPORTANT TO
TAKE THE TIME AND TALK TO YOU
ABOUT WHY RENTERS IN ANN BARBOT
NEED THE RIGHT TO RENEW THEIR
LEASES.
FIRST OF ALL THIS ISSUE AFFECTS
ALL RENTERS.
I KNOW THE NEIGHBOR WE LIVE IN
IS ONE WHERE LANDLORDS CAN
EVICT THEIR TENANTS BASICALLY
AT THEIR DISCRETION WITH
VIRTUALLY NO CONSEQUENCES.
LANDLORDS MIGHT SAY THAT ONLY A
FEW GRADUATETUDENTS CARE
ABOUT THIS ISSUE BUT THAT&apos;S NOT
TRUE.
ALL RENTERS LIVE IN THE SHADOW
OF THE POSSIBILITY THAT THEIR
LANDLORD MIGHT DISPLACE THEM
FOR WHATEVER REASON THE
PETITION THAT AN UPRISING FOR
TENANTS CIRCULATED HAS OVER
SEVEN HUNDRED SIGNATURES FROM
STUDENTS, NON STUDENTS AND EVEN
SOME HOMEOWNERS INDICATING THAT
THERE&apos;S BROAD AGREEMENT THAT
RENTERS SHOULD NOT BE DISPLACED
FROM THEIR HOMES OR AT THE VERY
LEAST IF THEY ARE THEY SHOULD
BE THERE MOVING COSTS SHOULD BE
OFFSET.
SECOND OF ALL, RENTERS BADLY
NEED ACCOUNTABILITY.
LANDLORDS MIGHT SAY THE RIGHT
TO RENEW WOULD PREVENT THEM
FROM EVICTING TENANTS AND
THAT&apos;S JUST NOT TRUE.
THE ORDINANCE WOULD STILL ALLOW
THEM TO EVICT PEOPLE WHO HAVE
VIOLATED THE TERMS OF THEIR
LEASE.
BUT FOR GRAY AREA CASES OR FOR
NO COURT CASES, LANDLORDS WOULD
REQUIRE WOULD NEED TO GIVE A
REASON OR AGAIN OFFSET THE
COSTS OF MOVING.
I WILL NEVER FIND OUT WHY WE
WERE DISPLACED FROM OUR HOUSES
AND I THINK IT&apos;S ABSURD AND
FRANKLY UNACCEPTABLE THAT WE
ALLOW THIS TO GO ON IN OUR CITY
.
LASTLY, THIS IS A MATTER
OF AFFORDABILITY WHICH IS AN
ISSUE I BELIEVE MANY OF YOU
CAMPAIGNED ON.
MY MOVE IS COSTING ME ABOUT
FIFTEEN HUNDRED DOLLARS MAYBE
MORE.
I WASN&apos;T EXACTLY PREPARED FOR
IT AND IT&apos;S WIPING OUT A GOOD
SWATH OF MY SAVINGS ACCORDING
TO THE FEDERAL RESERVE, THE
THREE QUARTERS OF HOUSEHOLDS
MIDDLE INCOME HOUSEHOLDS IN THE
COUNTRY CAN&apos;T AFFORD AN
UNEXPECTED EXPENSE OF FOUR
HUNDRED DOLLARS.
SO MANY PEOPLE IN OUR COMMUNITY
WOULD NOT BE ABLE TO BOUNCE
BACK FROM THIS KIND OF IMPACT
ON THEIR LIFE.
THIS IS WHY RELOCATION
ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS ARE THAT
ARE INCLUDED IN THE NEW
LEGISLATION ARE SO CRITICAL FOR
PRESERVING THE DIVERSITY AND
VIBRANCY OF OUR COMMUNITY SO AS
YOU ARE CONSIDERING THE
LEGISLATION LATER TONIGHT, I
URGE YOU TO CONSIDER WHAT WILL
HAPPEN TO OUR COMMUNITY IF
LANDLORDS ARE ALLOWED TO
CONTINUE DISPLACING TENANTS
UNCHECKED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER PLEASE CLAIRE
ARMISEN
.
HELLO EVERYONE.
I&apos;M CLAIRE ARNESON ARISING IF
YOU&apos;RE A GRAD STUDENT AT THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN STUDYING
PHYSICS I&apos;VE LIVED IN ANN ARBOR
SINCE MAY TWENTY EIGHTEEN WHEN
I SIGNED MY FIRST LEASE LESS
THAN TWO MONTHS AFTER ACCEPTING
MY ADMISSION OFFER TO STUDY
HERE.
LIKE MANY HANABI RENTERS, BOTH
STUDENTS AND WORKING FAMILIES
AND ADULT AND ADULTS I WAS
SUBJECT TO SIGNING A LEASE ON A
DEADLINE IMPOSED BY THE OFFERED
OPPORTUNITY TO WORK AND STUDY
NOT MY OWN SCHEDULE OR DESIRES
THE PROPOSED RIGHT TO RENEW
WILL HELP BOTH RENTERS NEW TO
THE AREA AND EXISTING RENTERS
BY ENSURING THAT LEASES ARE NOT
FILLED MORE THAN HALF A YEAR
BEFORE THEY ARE SCHEDULED TO
BEGIN AND PROVIDING STABILITY
FOR ANN ARBOR RESIDENTS
PLANNING THEIR LIVING
ARRANGEMENTS WITHOUT THE RIGHT
TO RENEW TENANTS CAN BE DENIED
A RENEWAL FOR REASONS OUTSIDE
THE TENANTS CONTROL.
AS WE JUST HEARD FROM NATHAN
AND LEASES CAN BE FILLED BEFORE
POTENTIAL STUDENTS OR WORKERS
HAVE EVEN BEEN OFFERED THE
OPPORTUNITY TO LIVE AND WORK IN
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL EXISTS
TO SERVE RESIDENTS.
FIFTY THREE PERCENT OF WHICH
ARE RENTERS IN ANN ARBOR WHEN
THE EXISTING SYSTEM FAILS TO DO
SO, THE RIGHT TO RENEW WILL
MAKE SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS
TOWARD ACHIEVING THIS.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS A MERE
FRESHMAN
.
&gt;&gt; HELLO MY NAME IS MARY
FLEISCHMAN.
I&apos;M ONE OF THE CONTRACTS
COMMITTEE CO-CHAIRS AT G.O. I&apos;M
A GRAD STUDENT HERE AND ARE
RESIDENT SO I&apos;M GLAD TO SEE
THAT THIS RESOLUTION IS FINALLY
BEFORE COUNCIL.
YOU KNOW IT&apos;S THE PRODUCT OF A
LOT OF WORK ON OUR BEHALVES AND
WE&apos;RE REALLY EXCITED TO SEE IT
MOVING FORWARD BECAUSE IT&apos;S
SUCH A CRITICAL PIECE
OF LEGISLATION.
&gt;&gt; BUT TIME IS RUNNING OUT AND
TO A GREAT EXTENT IT HAS
ALREADY RUN OUT THE NEW LEASING
CYCLE IS ALREADY UPON US.
PEOPLE HAVE ALREADY MOVED OUT.
THEY&apos;RE STARTING TO MOVE IN.
THEIR NEW LEASES WILL GO TO
EFFECT AND THIS LEGISLATION HAS
NOT YET PASSED.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN ANOTHER
YEAR AND MORE EVICTIONS BECAUSE
LET&apos;S BE CLEAR NONRENEWABLE IS
EVICTION.
&gt;&gt; SO I UNDERSTAND THAT I
RECENTLY GOT A CALL OUT IN AN
EMAIL TO CITY COUNCIL BY THE
LOVELY AREA APARTMENT
ASSOCIATION.
I&apos;M GLAD TO SEE THAT I&apos;VE GOT
THE LANDLORDS RUNNING SCARED I
BUT THE EMAILS CONTAINED SOME
PRETTY SERIOUS ERRORS ABOUT
WHAT WE&apos;VE BEEN DOING IN THE
PAST AND WHAT WE&apos;RE PLANNING TO
DO HERE.
WE TRY TO RENEW I URGE CITY
COUNCIL TO LOOK AT OUR
CORRECTIONS ON TWITTER TO THIS
EMAIL WHICH RECEIVED A FAILING
GRADE FROM US.
I THINK IT&apos;S ALSO IMPORTANT TO
POINT OUT HERE THAT THE
LANDLORD SEEMS SURPRISED THAT
WE HATE THAT WE&apos;RE ANGRY AT
THEM, THAT WE&apos;RE FRUSTRATED
THEY ACT LIKE WE&apos;RE INSIDIOUSLY
CREATING THIS CAMPAIGN TO
VILLAINIZE.
BUT THE TRUTH IS WE&apos;RE NOT
REALIZING THAT THEY VILLAINIZE
THEMSELVES BY TREATING THEIR
TENANTS WITH DISRESPECT, BY
BULLYING US, BY TERRORIZE US,
BY FORCING US OUT OF OUR HOMES,
BY EVICTING PEOPLE DURING THE
PANDEMIC AND BY CHARGING
EXORBITANT RENTS THAT NO ONE
CAN AFFORD.
THEIR BEHAVIOR IS SO ATROCIOUS
THAT WE HAVE TO TURN TO THE
GOVERNMENT TO STEP IN AND
PREVENT THEM FROM CONTINUING ON
AS THEY ARE.
SO IT IS RIGHT TO RENEW ABOUT
WELL IT&apos;S ABOUT POWER NOT
RENEWAL IS A THREAT THAT HANGS
OVER THE HEAD OF EVERY TENANT
LIKE A SWORD.
WE ARE SCARED OF BEING SEEN AS
UPPITY TENANTS FOR ASKING FOR
THE REPAIRS WE&apos;RE LEGALLY
ENTITLED TO AND FOR NOT JUST
SMILING AND NODDING AT
EVERYTHING OUR LANDLORD SAYS
HOW CAN WE QUIETLY ENJOY OUR
RESIDENCE WITH THAT THREAT
HANGING OVER US SIMPLY WE
CANNOT SO I HAVE TO SAY THAT
EVEN THOUGH THIS RESOLUTION IS
NOT HERE, WE ARE STILL VERY
FRUSTRATED.
WE&apos;RE FRUSTRATED THAT IT&apos;S BEEN
ANOTHER YEAR WHEN WE IDENTIFIED
THIS PROBLEM A YEAR AGO THAT
IT&apos;S STILL NOT READY TO GO
FIRST READING EVEN THOUGH IT&apos;S
BEEN SITTING WITH THE CITY
LAWYERS FOR MONTHS AND MONTHS
SINCE IN MARCH.
I BELIEVE THAT CITY COUNCIL
ITSELF IS NOT TAKING THE
INITIATIVE ON THESE ISSUES.
IT SHOULD NOT BE UP TO
ACTIVISTS TO BE FIGHTING FOR
THIS.
YOU NEED TO TAKE THE INITIATIVE
AND START PUTTING FORWARD THESE
KINDS OF RESOLUTIONS OURSELVES
.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS THE CEO NOW
WHY ARE YOU DOING RIGHT NOW?
WHY RIGHT NOW PLEASE?
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS THE FEAST
KALAMA
GREETINGS TO THE MAYOR,
THE CITY COUNCIL STAFF AND MY
FELLOW CITIZENS WHO WERE
PRESENT HERE TONIGHT.
I&apos;M HERE BECAUSE OF A
CONTINUING CONCERN REGARDING
THE CITY&apos;S ISSUES WITH HIRING
BLACK PEOPLE TO WORK AT CITY
HALL.
THE REPORTER FROM THE MLA DID
AN EXCELLENT JOB OF CAPTURING
THE ESSENCE OF THE ISSUE AS IT
RELATES TO THE CITY&apos;S EFFORT TO
IMPLEMENT A NEW DIVERSITY
EQUALITY AND INCLUSION
INITIATIVE AT CITY HALL.
MY QUESTION TO YOU, MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL HOW MANY MORE
INITIATIVES WILL IT TAKE IN
ORDER TO ACHIEVE YOUR GOAL?
IS IT REALLY NECESSARY TO KEEP
INVESTING TAXPAYERS&apos; MONEY AND
INITIATIVES WHERE THERE IS NO
ACCOUNTABILITY?
MR. MAYOR, I QUOTE YOU
WORKFORCE DISCRIMINATION IS
UNACCEPTABLE.
WE KNOW THAT AS AN ORGANIZATION
IT IS AN AREA WHERE
IMPROVEMENTS IS ABSOLUTELY
NECESSARY AND IS A COUNCIL
PRIORITY.
OVER THE LAST YEAR AND A HALF
THIS COUNCIL HAS DEMONSTRATED
IS IS COMMITMENT TO EXCELLENCE,
INTEGRITY AND EQUITY.
IN THE QUOTE I ASK YOU MR.
MAYOR AND COUNCIL IS SELLING
COMPLAINTS ABOUT PAYING OUT
TAXPAYERS&apos; MONEY.
IT IS AN INDICATION OF THE
PROGRESS YOU REFERENCED IN YOUR
COMMENTS QUITE FRANKLY, MR.
MAYOR AND COUNCIL, I DON&apos;T SEE
THE PROGRESS YOU REFER TO.
I DO HAVE A SUGGESTION IT MAY
THIS ORGANIZATION CLOSER TO
REALITY.
I ARE REQUESTING DARO THE
NUMBER OF HOUSES THAT TOOK
PLACE UNDER THE LEADERSHIP
OF YOUR FORMER HUMAN RESOURCES
DIRECTOR WHO DEMONSTRATED
BLATANT RACIAL BIAS TOWARDS
BLACKS DURING HER TENURE AT
CITY HALL.
I WOULD LIKE TO KNOW WHAT
POSITIONS OR JOBS THAT WAS
SUPPOSED TO DO ON HER TENURE,
WHO APPLIED TO WHAT POSITION
ABOUT RACE AND GENDER.
WHAT WAS THE OUTCOME IN TERMS
OF WHO WAS HIRED ALSO LIKE TO
REQUEST ON THE HIRING THAT TOOK
PLACE ON YOUR PREVIOUS CITY
ADMINISTRATOR WHERE ISRAEL WELL
DOCUMENTED THAT HE TOO
EXHIBITED RACIAL BIAS TOWARDS
BLACKS AT CITY HALL.
I BELIEVE THE CLOSE SCRUTINY
OF THIS DATA MAY PROVIDE USEFUL
INFORMATION TO THE CITIZENS
OF THIS COMMUNITY AND TO THE
CITY&apos;S POOR TRACK RECORD
REGARDING HIRING TO WORK IN
CITY HALL.
I DO HOPE THIS INFORMATION
WITHIN THE NEXT FEW WEEKS AND I
LOOK FORWARD TO HELPING YOU AND
THE COUNCIL TO MOVE FORWARD IN
ADDRESSING THIS SENSITIVE
ISSUE.
I WOULD LIKE TO SUBMIT THIS AS
MY REQUEST MY REQUEST FOR THE
DIRECTOR ADMISSION TO THE CLERK
PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
REVIEW OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
REALLY PRICE GREAT ON PRICE.
I LIVE AT FIFTY EIGHT AND
GILBERT I&apos;M A MEMBER OF A
COOPERATIVE FORMERLY NORTH
CAMPUS THE NORTH CAMPUS KOLBE&apos;S
.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M HERE TO READ A STATEMENT
THAT WAS PASSED AT OUR HOUSE
MEETING ON AUGUST 3RD AND HERE
GOES FOR COOPERATIVE HOUSE
EXISTS BECAUSE OF THE HARD WORK
AND DEDICATION OF THOUSANDS
COOPERATE ACROSS DECADES THE
ICC BROKE GROUND AT GILBERTE
COURT IN JUNE OF NINETEEN SIXTY
NINE WITH FUNDING FROM THE
FIRST HOUSING AND URBAN
DEVELOPMENT LOAN EVER GIVEN TO
A COOPERATIVE ORGANIZATION.
THE BUILDING WAS COMPLETED IN
NINETEEN SEVENTY ONE AND WENT
FULL AS ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
FIVE MEMBERS FOR MORE THAN HALF
OF ITS EXISTENCE SHETLAND HAS
MANAGED OUR TWO INDUSTRIAL
KITCHENS, KEPT INVENTORY AND
COOKED DINNER FOR OUR MEMBERS.
&gt;&gt; HUNDREDS OF RESTAURANTS HAVE
COME TOGETHER OVER HER FOOD TO
HAVE MEETINGS SOLVE PROBLEMS
AND BUILD LASTING RELATIONSHIPS
.
ENTIRE PHD THESIS HAVE BEEN
FUELED BY HER DEDICATION AND
THROUGH THE TURMOIL OF STUDENT
LIFE.
I WAS IN CRISIS AND MOST
RECENTLY PANDEMIC THAT DINNER
WOULD ALWAYS BE AT ESHER HAS
BECOME A CONSTANT A WELCOME
CONSTANT IN OUR LIVES BECAUSE
MOST OF THE MEMBERS HEALTH
LABOR IS SERVED IN THE KITCHEN
HER PATIENTS AND TRAINING NEW
MEMBERS TO THE STRANGE WORLD IN
INDUSTRIAL KITCHEN AND
COMMITMENT TO NUTRITION AND
FOOD SAFETY HAVE HELPED KEEP US
SAFE AND BY BUILDING
INFRASTRUCTURE AND SYSTEMS FOR
HER FUTURE SHE HAS HELPED US
STAY SAFE FOR A LONG TIME TO
COME.
&gt;&gt; A CRITICAL MEMBER
OF ESTHER&apos;S COMMUNITY, LYNNE IS
PART OF WHAT MAKES YOUR HOUSE A
HOME FOR THESE REASONS AND MANY
MORE THE MEMBERS OF OUR
COOPERATIVE HOUSE FORMALLY
REQUESTED THE NAME OF GILBERTE
COURT BE OFFICIALLY CHANGED TO
LYNN COURT IN RECOGNITION
OF HER TWENTY EIGHT YEARS
OF DEDICATED SERVICE AND TO
CEMENT HER PLACE AND OURS IN
COPERATIVE HISTORY AND IN THE
HISTORY OF ANN ARBOR.
THANK YOU.
OTHER COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
COUNCIL SANDRA GRISWOLD.
I&apos;M SURE EVERYONE IS AWARE
OF THE HEXAVALENT CHROMIUM
SPILL THAT OCCURRED AND
THREATENED THE HURON RIVER.
IT APPEARS THAT IT IS NOT AS
SERIOUS AS FIRST THOUGHT.
BUT CONGRESSWOMAN OR I&apos;M SORRY
STATE REPRESENTATIVE YUSEF
ROBBY HAS ASKED ME TO
COORDINATE AN EFFORT TO GET
SUPPORT FOR HIS POLLUTER PAY
BILL THAT HAS BEEN IN THE HOUSE
AND THERE&apos;S A COMPANION BILL IN
THE SENATE I&apos;M MENTIONING IT
TONIGHT SIMPLY FOR INFORMATION
PURPOSES.
I PLAN TO BRING IT TO THE
AUGUST 18TH COUNCIL POLICY
AGENDA COMMITTEE AND TO THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION LATER
THIS MONTH AND THEN BRING IT
BACK ON SEPTET NUMBER SIX TO
COUNCIL AS A RESOLUTION.
I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE THE WORK
THAT&apos;S BEEN COMPLETED SO FAR IN
OAKLAND COUNTY BY THE CHAIR
OF THE COUNTY COMMISSION AS
WELL AS OUR WATER RESOURCE
COMMISSIONER EVAN PRATT WHO IS
NOW WORKING WITH LIVINGSTON
COUNTY, THE ONLY WAY WE ARE
GOING TO DISCOURAGE AND REDUCE
THE NUMBER OF SPILLS AND TOXINS
IN OUR ENVIRONMENT TOO IS TO
HAVE A VERY STRONG POLLUTER PAY
LAW IN MICHIGAN AND THIS WILL
HELP MAKE THAT A REALITY.
&gt;&gt; SO THE NEXT THING IS
REGARDING CONGRESSWOMAN DEBBIE
DINGELL AND THAT IS THERE IS A
UNITY EVENT TOMORROW EVENING
THAT IS SPONSORED BY THE
CONGRESSWOMAN AND THE WASHTENAW
COUNTY DEMOCRATIC PARTY.
IF ANYONE IS INTERESTED IN
THAT, I&apos;M NOT GOING TO ANNOUNCE
THE DETAILS FOR SECURITY
REASONS BUT SIMPLY CONTACT ME.
YOU CAN JUST GOOGLE MY NAME AND
MY PHONE NUMBER IS RIGHT THERE
AND I WILL PROVIDE THE
INFORMATION FOR YOU AND THAT&apos;S
ALSO OPEN TO INTERESTED
STUDENTS, YOUR MEMBERS IF
THEY&apos;RE INTERESTED.
&gt;&gt; LASTLY, I WANT THANK STAFF
FOR HOSTING A MEETING TO START
LOOKING AT OPTIMIZING OUR
DIFFERENT INITIATIVES INCLUDING
VISION ZERO AND EIGHT TO ZERO.
WE HAD A PRODUCTIVE MEETING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU COUNCILMAN.
SO I CHATTED WITH CAROLE
GIBSON, THE FOUNDER OF ANOTHER
ANN ARBOR, A NONPROFIT
DEDICATED TO THE RECORDING AND
PROMOTING OF HISTORY OF THE
CITY&apos;S RESIDENTS ABOUT HER
FATHER, DR. LEE JONES, WHO WAS
A SECOND WARD RESIDENT FOR
ALMOST 50 YEARS BEFORE HE DIED
THIS LAST SEPTEMBER.
DR. JONES WILL BE HONORED BY
THE U OF M TUTTLE SCHOOL AT THE
END OF THIS MONTH.
THERE ARE THEY&apos;RE HONORING HIS
LIFE&apos;S WORK COUNSELING PEOPLE
OF COLOR AND BLACK DENTAL
STUDENTS BY NAMING A CONFERENCE
ROOM AFTER HIM.
SO I&apos;D LIKE TO THANK YOUR
TAYLOR ISSUING A PROCLAMATION
AND APPRECIATION FOR DR. JONES
WORK THE THE SECOND BLACK
MAYORAL BLACK LIVES MATTER
MURAL WILL BE INSTALLED ON THE
20TH WHEELER PARK.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE AN EARLY
START AT SEVEN A.M. THE LAST
TIME WE FINISHED AROUND 1:00 PM
.
SO I ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO COME
OUT AND VOLUNTEER.
WE HAD FOLKS OF ALL AGES AND
ABILITIES COME OUT TO HELP PAIN
AND LASTLY I HAD SOME
CONVERSATIONS WITH THE HOUSING
ALLIANCE IN REGARDS TO THE
RIGHT TO RENEWAL.
I THINK THERE&apos;S SOME EAGERNESS
AROUND SOCIALLY AROUND AGENCIES
WHO WORK IN HOUSING TO HAVE
SOME INPUT ON THIS ON THIS
ORDINANCE CHANGE, PARTICULARLY
SINCE THEY WERE THE ONES WHO&apos;VE
HAD TO HELP IMPLEMENT THE EARLY
LEASE ORDINANCE IN TERMS
OF GETTING INFORMATION OUT TO
LANDLORDS AND PROPERTY OWNERS.
MY HOPE IS THAT AS WE DISCUSS
THIS LATER ON TODAY, WE CAN
ALSO CONSIDER THE WORK THE
AGENCIES ARE PUTTING FORTH AND
AND HELPING PUT THIS TOGETHER
FURTHER COMMUNICATIONS COUNCIL
GROUND.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I&apos;M JUST SO QUICK
CONGRATULATIONS TO THE
GREENBELT PROGRAM WITH TWENTY
SIX POINT FIVE MILLION DOLLARS
IN FUNDS THEY&apos;VE NOW BEEN ABLE
TO SECURE ABOUT EIGHTY THREE
DOLLARS MILLION WORTH OF REAL
ESTATE AND GETTING CLOSE TO NOW
ALMOST 7000 ACRES OF PROTECTED
LAND AND A LOT OF CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT CONSERVING LAND WITHIN
THE CITY.
BUT IT&apos;S ALSO IMPORTANT TO
RECOGNIZE I THINK WHAT GOOD
WE&apos;RE DOING PROTECTING LAND
BOTH FOR RECREATION AND SO THAT
WE&apos;LL HAVE A SAFE SOURCE FOR
FOOD AND PROTECTING OUR WATER,
YOU KNOW, MANY DECADES INTO THE
FUTURE.
SO I JUST WANT TO CONGRATULATE
LONG FOR JUST SOME OUTSTANDING
WORK WE ACTUALLY HAVEN&apos;T BEEN
ABLE TO THE GREENBELT BECAUSE
STUFF HAS BEEN SO BUSY CLOSING
ON PROJECTS THAT ARE IN THE
PIPELINE.
&gt;&gt; SO THANKS FOR THAT FOR THE
COMMUNICATION.
&gt;&gt; I LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
PREMIER WHAT TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION FOR THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENT WAS PRESENTED TO
CITY COUNCIL ON THE AUGUST FOUR
TWENTY TWENTY TWO REGULAR
SESSION MEETING TO THE HARBOR
AREA TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SEEMY BAAM
HAVE THE MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY
COUNTERMAN BRIGGS SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION
PLEASE WHILE FAVRE POSED IT IS
APPROVED WE NOW COME TO THE
CONSENT AGENDA MAY HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY
COUNCILOR BURGESS SECOND BY
KATZENBERG SONG DISCUSSION
PLEASE THE CONSENT AGENDA
COUNCIL ROLLAWAY THANK YOU BOTH
ONE C EIGHT AND NINE C ONE ZERO
EIGHT S.A NINE FOR THE
DISCUSSION THE CONSENT AGENDA
COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER THANKS
FOR A BRIEF DISCUSSION.
I&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO PULL KATENDE
FOURTEEN EIGHTEEN AND I&apos;D LIKE
TO COMMENT I WON&apos;T PULL IT OFF
FOR DISCUSSION BUT I LIKE TO
COMMENT ON K4 AND AND I&apos;LL SEND
YOU A FOLLOW UP EMAIL.
JUST ASK THE ADMINISTRATOR FOR
IS A RESOLUTION TO PROVE A
CONTRACT TO REDO THE CITY&apos;S
WEBSITE AND IF YOU&apos;RE LIKE IF
YOU HAVE RECEIVED
CORRESPONDENCE LIKE I DO HEARD
FROM PEOPLE THAT IT REALLY
DOESN&apos;T WORK FOR THEM.
ONE THING I ALWAYS DO WHEN I
USE THE WEBSITE MYSELF IS I
PROVIDE FEEDBACK ON THE BOTTOM
OF THE PAGE.
IT SAYS WAS THIS PAGE HELPFUL
YES OR NO ONE?
TELL US WHY AND I ALWAYS FILL
THOSE OUT BUT I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT
IT OR THEY FALL INTO AND SO I&apos;D
LIKE OUR ADMINISTRATOR TO
GATHER UP THOSE HOWEVER MANY
YEARS OF FEEDBACK EXIST FROM
THAT FORM AND MAKE SURE THAT
THE NEW PROVIDER HAS ACCESS TO
THAT.
AND I HAVE ALSO BE INTERESTED
TO SEE IT MYSELF JUST FROM AN
OVERSIGHT PERSPECTIVE AGAIN ON
THE BOTTOM OF EACH PAGE WE ASK
WAS THIS PAGE HELPFUL YES OR NO
?
AND THEN THERE&apos;S A ROOM TO
COMMENT AND I I&apos;M SURE THAT OUR
EDUCATED COMMUNITY MANY PEOPLE
HAVE TOLD US WHAT WOULD IMPROVE
THEIR WEBSITE AND I THINK THAT
SHOULD BE THE BASIS OF THIS
REDESIGN FOR THAT AGAIN, SUCH A
DISCUSSION OF THE CONSENT
AGENDA ALL IN FAVOR CAN SET THE
AGENDA WITH THE EXCEPTION
OF SAY ONE EIGHT, NINE, TEN
FOURTEEN EIGHTEEN PCI POSED
IT&apos;S THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF SAY ONE EIGHT
NINE 10, 14, 18 IS APPROVED
WITH 11 COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THUS SATISFYING THE REQUIREMENT
WITH RESPECT TO C A THIRTEEN C
FIFTEEN SIXTEEN TO ONE
RESOLUTION TO CLOSE STREETS FOR
THE MAYOR&apos;S AUTUMNAL GREEN FAIR
FRIDAY OCTOBER SEVEN TWENTY
TWENTY TWO MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER AMAWI SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE ASK ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER I&apos;M AMAWI THANK
YOU.
JUST REAL QUICKLY I GUESS I
COULD HAVE JUST COMMENTED ON
BUT IT&apos;S GOOD TO SEE THAT THE
LIBRARY LOT AND THE LIBRARY
LANE ARE BEING INCLUDED FOR
THIS EVENT.
I THINK THAT SPACE IS
DESPERATELY NEEDING ACTIVITIES
LIKE THIS AND SO IT&apos;S GOOD TO
SEE THIS FAIR EXPANDING
EDUCATING THE COMMUNITY AND THE
EVOLUTION WAYS WE ARE TRYING TO
ADVANCE OUR EIGHT TO ZERO GOALS
.
UM, HOPEFULLY THE WEATHER IS
NICE THAT DAY AND I&apos;M GLAD IT&apos;S
NOT A HOME GAME SO I LOOK
FORWARD TO SEEING THE SUCCESS
COMING FROM THAT THAT DAY THERE
ON THAT SITE.
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
POSED IT IS APPROVED C8
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES GROUP
WITH ECOLOGY CENTER FOR
RESOURCE RECOVERY EDUCATION
OUTREACH, ENGAGEMENT, MARKETING
AND MARKETING FOR 853 1211
BILLION OVER FIVE YEARS MOVED
BY COUNCIL PARALOWIE SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE ASSOCIATE
COUNCIL MEMBER ALLAWI.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU AND I APOLOGIZE
FOR NOT GETTING THIS QUESTION
IN SOONER.
I WAS WONDERING IF THE STAFF
WAS HERE OR MEMBERS FROM THE
ECOLOGY CENTER WHO CAN SPEAK ON
THIS HERE LENGTHY FIVE YEAR
CONTRACT OF EIGHT HUNDRED AND
FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLARS IT JUMPS
OUT AT ME AND YOU KNOW IT IS
QUITE SUBSTANTIAL AND AS I
ALLUDED TO IN MY EARLIER
COMMENTS, YOU KNOW, AS WE MOVE
FORWARD WITH IMPLEMENTING NEW
WAYS OF TRYING TO GET TO
CARBONI CARBON NEUTRALITY OR
SOMETHING CLOSE TO THAT, I
UNDERSTAND THE NEED TO SPEND
AND EDUCATE.
I NOTICE THIS FIVE YEAR
CONTRACT, THE SECOND AND THIRD
YEAR THERE IS THERE IS A SPIKE
OF NEARLY A QUARTER MILLION
DOLLARS A YEAR IN EACH THOSE
YEARS.
AND SO JUST TO ELIMINATE THE
PUBLIC AND PERHAPS THIS BOARD
AND MYSELF IN PARTICULAR WHAT&apos;S
WHAT&apos;S BEING PLANNED AND WHAT
KIND OF GOALS AND METRICS ARE
WE GOING TO HAVE IN ORDER TO
MEASURE THE SUCCESS
I&apos;M GOING
TO FRAME FOR
THIS.
&gt;&gt; I WILL SAY THAT WHEN YOU
LOOK AT THE RECOMMENDATION FOR
THE PLAN EXCUSE I CAN&apos;T OKAY.
&gt;&gt; HOLD ON PLEASE.
COUNCILOR A CANDIDATE BEGIN TO
DECIPHER THE THE ANSWER I THINK
WAS AN INTRO TO THE ANSWER BUT
YOU ASKED COULD YOU PLEASE
PERHAPS BE CLOSER TO THE
MICROPHONE WHEN YOU HEAR ME
BETTER NOW I THINK THAT&apos;S
BETTER YES.
OK YEAH I WAS JUST SAYING THAT
I&apos;M GOING TO TURN THIS OVER TO
SARAH MASON, OUR RESOURCE
RECOVERY MANAGER.
SHE&apos;S GOING TO ANSWER YOUR
QUESTION COS THE MEMBER ONLY AS
AN INTRODUCTION JUST THAT YOU
KNOW THE SOLID RESEARCH
RECOMMENDATION AND EDUCATION
AND OUTREACH AND THE CONTRACT
ALL OF THOSE RECOMMENDATIONS IN
THERE AND I WILL LET SARAH
EXPAND.
YES.
GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU.
MOLLY STUART.
THIS CONTRACT COVERS FIVE
DIFFERENT WORK AREAS THAT DO
MEET THE RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE
SALIVATES RESEARCH MANAGEMENT
PLAN INCLUDE THE BIGGEST
EXPENDITURE IS AROUND A
MARKETING CAMPAIGN FOR
EDUCATION ON TRASH RECYCLING
COMPOST IN THE CIRCULAR
ECONOMY.
THAT WAS A DIRECT
RECOMMENDATION OF THE PLAN AND
IT ALSO WILL DO SOCIAL BASED
MARKETING.
THERE WILL BE OUTREACH TO
MULTIFAMILY PROPERTIES,
OUTREACH TO COMMERCIAL
PROPERTIES IN THE BUSINESS
UNITS.
THERE WILL BE YOUTH EDUCATION
AND THEN CONTINUED OUTREACH.
ANOTHER RECOMMENDATION IN THE
SOLID WASTE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
PLAN WAS GRASSROOTS EDUCATION
MEETING THE PUBLIC WHERE THEY
ARE AT EVENTS IN THIS CONTRACT
WILL ALSO INCLUDE THAT THE COST
DOES VARY OVER EACH YEAR OF THE
CONTRACT BECAUSE THERE&apos;S
DIFFERENT WORK TO BE DONE IN
EACH OF THOSE WORK AREAS.
SOME OF THEM REQUIRE
DEVELOPMENT OF PROGRAMING AND
PLANNING AND THEN THERE&apos;S AN
IMPLEMENTATION COST SO THE COST
AROUND SAY FOR THE SOCIAL BASED
MARKETING CAMPAIGN, THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE OF THAT
HAPPENS REALLY WITHIN THE FIRST
YEAR OF THE CONTRACT AND THEN
WILL BE ROLLED OUT IN THE YEARS
AFTER THAT.
THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION, COUNCILOR
DISH.
I JUST WANT TO SAY HOW EXCITED
I AM TO SEE THIS CONTRACT.
IT BRINGS INTO FOCUS THE
CRUCIAL SYNERGIES BETWEEN A TWO
ZERO AND SOLID WASTE.
&gt;&gt; THIS FIVE YEAR CONTRACT IS
NO LONGER THAN USUAL BUT IS
MORE FAR REACHING THAN PREVIOUS
CONTRACTS BECAUSE IT UNDERTAKES
A MUCH MORE AMBITIOUS PUBLIC
EDUCATION CAMPAIGN THAT IS
ALIGNED WITH OUR TWO ZERO GOALS
ESPECIALLY STRATEGY FIVE WHICH
CALLS FOR THINGS THAT WE
URGENTLY NEED.
AND I&apos;M JUST GOING TO LIST A
FEW OF THEM BECAUSE THEY&apos;VE
BEEN ON MY WISH LIST FOREVER
AND ONE AND I THINK MANY OF US
NOT JUST MINE BUT ONE IS
INCREASING THE RECYCLING RATE
IN THE COMMERCIAL SECTOR.
&gt;&gt; SECOND IS BOOSTING ALL
OF OUR MATERIAL RESOURCE
LITERACY BY TEACHING EVERYBODY
APPROPRIATE HANDLING
OF RECYCLABLE COMPOSTABLE AND
TRASH MATERIALS.
BUT NOT ONLY MAKING US MORE
LITERATE ABOUT MATERIAL
RESOURCES BUT THEN TAKING US TO
A NEW LEVEL WHERE WE&apos;RE NOT
ONLY BETTER AT THE DISPOSAL END
OF THINGS BUT WE EXPLORE
STRATEGIES THAT EXTEND THE
USEFUL LIFE OF A GOOD SO
SWAPPING, REFURBISHING,
REPURPOSING ALL OF THOSE
INCREDIBLE THINGS WHICH ARE
PART OF WHAT WE CALL THE
CIRCULAR ECONOMY.
I&apos;M ALSO REALLY EXCITED TO SEE
THE NEW PARTNERSHIP WITH KHAN
WHICH WILL WITH COMMUNITY
ACTION NETWORK WHICH WILL BE
WORKING WITH FOR LOWER INCOME
MULTIFAMILY PROPERTIES IN THE
CITY TO HELP THE RESIDENTS
IDENTIFY WHAT THEIR PRIORITIES
ARE FOR SOLID WASTE ISSUES AND
TO HELP WORK OUT SOME OF THE
REALLY KNOTTY PROBLEMS
OF MAKING RECYCLING WORK IN
MULTI-FAMILY PROPERTIES.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
BRENER THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO NOTE THAT THE
ECOLOGY CENTER HAS BEEN
ESSENTIALLY THE SOLE SUPPLIER
THE SERVICE FOR SO LONG AS I
CAN REMEMBER AND SO WE GOT
850000 DOLLARS WORTH
OF MARKETING AND EDUCATION AND
SO ON AND AT THE END OF EACH
OF THE PREVIOUS FIVE YEARS
CONTRACTS I DON&apos;T RECALL EVER
SEEING A SUMMARY THAT SHOWS
EVEN AN ESTIMATION OF THE GOOD
THAT CAME FROM ALL THIS.
IF THAT EXISTS I MISSED IT IN
THIS RESOLUTION SO I WOULD URGE
THE VENDOR WHO RECEIVES THIS
CONTRACT WHO IS POISED TO
RECEIVE THIS CONTRACT TO SET
SOME GOALS AND THEN STUDY AT
THE END TO SEE IF THOSE GOALS
WERE INDEED MET.
OTHERWISE IT&apos;S JUST I GUESS THE
COST OF DOING BUSINESS WITH
RECYCLING WHEN YOU GO OUT TO
THE REUSE CENTER RIGHT NOW AND
YOU TRY AND DROP OFF THINGS,
YOU MAY BE SHOCKED TO SEE THE
SIGNS OF ALL THE THINGS THAT WE
DON&apos;T ACCEPT ANYMORE THAT I&apos;M
SURE PEOPLE THINK WE STILL
ACCEPT AND I&apos;M SURE ARE GOING
INTO THAT WASTE STREAM.
AND I MEAN IF YOU IF YOU SEE
WHAT HAPPENS TO A GOOD DEAL
OF OUR RECYCLING, BE IT GLASS
FOR LANDFILL COVER OR REFUSAL
TO TAKE PLASTICS OR SCRAP
METALS OR THINGS LIKE THAT, YOU
SEE THAT WE&apos;RE REALLY
TIGHTENING UP THE AMOUNT
OF RECYCLING THAT WE DO AS A
COMMUNITY AND I DON&apos;T PART
OF THAT EDUCATION IS HEADED
TOWARDS THIS OR NOT.
BUT I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE SOME
QUANTIFICATION OF THE MONEY
THAT WE SPEND AT THIS TABLE.
THAT&apos;S ALL I&apos;D LIKE TO SAY
ABOUT THAT.
I JUST WOULD LIKE TO SEE
SOMETHING QUANTIFIABLE A LITTLE
LESS POLITICKING AND A LITTLE
MORE ACTION.
&gt;&gt; THE FURTHER DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER SONG
THE
CONTRACT THAT&apos;S PART OF OUR
PACKET.
&gt;&gt; SO IF YOU LOOK AT PAGE
ELEVEN, THERE ARE THERE ARE
PRIMARY GOALS INCLUDED FOR
EVERY SECTOR THAT THE OUR STAFF
IS LOOKING TO WORK IN A COUNCIL
MEMBER HAD MENTIONED THE
INCREASE IN RECYCLING RATE IN
THE COMMERCIAL SECTOR MOVE
TOWARDS A MORE CIRCULAR ECONOMY
ECONOMY REDUCING WASTE
GENERATED RAISING AWARENESS BUT
THE CONTRACT GOES ON.
IT&apos;S THIRTY FIVE PAGES LONG.
IT GOES INTO QUITE A LOT
OF DETAIL ON EVENTS ON PILOT
PILOT WORK WITH BUSINESSES TO
ENGAGING YOUTH COMMUNITY BASED
SOCIAL MARKETING.
I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S REALLY IT&apos;S
VERY, VERY SPECIFIC AND HOW
THIS THIS CONTRACT IS
OUTWEIGHING DELIVERABLES ON HOW
THE PILOT PROGRAMS ARE BEING
SET UP, WHO&apos;S BEING ENGAGED TO
EXECUTION AND IMPLEMENTATION.
SO I ENCOURAGE FOLKS WHO HAVE
QUESTIONS WHAT EXACTLY WE&apos;RE
DOING WITH PUBLIC MONIES TO
REVIEW IT.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S PRETTY DETAILED.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCILOR RAYNER.
THANK YOU.
IT&apos;S EVIDENT WHAT THEY&apos;RE GOING
TO DO.
&gt;&gt; WHAT I&apos;M ASKING FOR IS AN
ASSESSMENT OF THE OUTCOMES.
I SEE WHAT THEY&apos;RE GOING TO DO.
I READ THE CONTRACT JUST LIKE
YOU SAY YOU DID SO I SEE WHAT
THEY&apos;RE UP TO.
&gt;&gt; WHAT I WANT TO KNOW IS AT
THE END I WOULD LIKE EVEN A
BRIEF REPORT OF SUCCESSES AND
OR FAILURES THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER RAMLAL I THANK
YOU.
WE&apos;VE SEEN CONTRACT FOR ECOLOGY
CENTER OBVIOUSLY AND UM I&apos;LL
LEAVE IT AT THAT.
I WILL SAY THE REALITY IS IT&apos;S
IN DISARRAY IN TERMS OF WHAT
THE PUBLIC UNDERSTANDS AND WHAT
WHAT TO ACTUALLY BEING DONE AND
SO WE REALLY NEED TO GET BETTER
AT THIS.
IT&apos;S UNFORTUNATELY BEEN NO KNOW
IT&apos;S BEEN AN ABJECT FAILURE AND
IT&apos;S NO ONE&apos;S PARTICULAR FAULT
.
I&apos;M HERE TO POINT FINGERS AT
IT.
WHY RECYCLING AS MANY DIFFERENT
REASONS BUT THERE IS A LOT
OF MISUNDERSTANDING AS TO
MATERIALS THAT ARE ACCEPTED AND
ETC. AND MANY OF THESE SAME
INITIATIVES OR INITIATIVES THAT
WERE IN PREVIOUS CONTRACT AS
WELL.
SO I KNOW THERE&apos;S IS A COUPLE
OF NEW ASPECTS BUT MUCH OF IT
IS WHAT WE&apos;VE BEEN DOING IN THE
PAST AND I JUST THINK AS I SAID
IN MY PREVIOUS COMMENT, SOME
METRICS ON THIS WOULD BE
ADVISABLE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, CARL.
BRITISH QUESTION FOR STAFF UM,
WE ASSESS HOW CLEAN OUR
RECYCLING FOR ONE THING IS HOW
EFFECTIVELY AND OUR
BRIGHTSOURCE MICHAEL WHAT IS
OUR I JUST CAN&apos;T REMEMBER THE
THING THAT THAT&apos;S CALLED THE
RATE AND I JUST WANTED TO KNOW
WHAT WAS OUR RATE AND HOW DOES
IT COMPARE TO APPEAR
COMMUNITIES NATIONALLY
THAT YOU
JUST COMPLETED?
WOULD YOU LIKE TO GIVE THE MOST
RECENT I KNOW WHAT WE HAD
BEFORE WAS VERY LOW AND WE WERE
SOME OF THE LOWEST RATES IN THE
STATE AND YOU CAN BUY OUR BEST
PERFORMING BENCHMARK FOR THEIR
YES OFF THE TOP OF MY HEAD.
SO OUR GOAL IS TO BE LESS THAN
12 PERCENT AND AT OUR WE DID ER
OUR AUDIT IN APRIL WHICH IS OUR
FIRST COMPOSITIONAL AUDIT AT
THE NEW MURF ONCE IT OPENED AND
WE DO THIS TWICE ANNUALLY AND
IT WAS A LITTLE BIT HIGHER THAN
OUR GOAL.
I WANT TO SAY THAT IT WAS
BETWEEN 13 AND 14 PERCENT.
I CAN PULL UP THE EXACT NUMBER
BUT WE ARE WORKING TO BRING
THAT DOWN IN THIS EDUCATION IN
THIS OUTREACH WILL HELP TOWARDS
THAT END.
IS THERE DO YOU HAVE ANY
UNDERSTAND HOW THAT COMPARES
NATIONALLY TO YEAH.
THANK YES.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR REMINDING ME.
THE SECOND PART OF YOUR
QUESTION INAUDIBLE IS A LEADER
AND HAS BEEN A LEADER IN
RECYCLING AND EVEN THOUGH
THAT&apos;S SLIGHTLY ABOVE OUR OWN
AMBITIOUS GOAL IT IS EXCELLENT
WHEN YOU COMPARE IT TO PROGRAMS
ACROSS COUNTRY.
I THINK THAT THE AVERAGE
CONTAMINATION RATE FOR MOST
SINGLE STREAM CURBSIDE PROGRAMS
RANGES CLOSER EIGHTEEN TO
TWENTY FIVE PERCENT, SOME
HIGHER THAN THAT, SOME AS HIGH
AS 40.
SO WE REALLY DO A VERY GOOD JOB
COMPARED FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNTERPARTS
.
SO I&apos;M SEEING HERE IN THE
CONTRACT WITHIN 12 WEEKS THE
CONTRACTOR FOR SCOTLAND PERFORM
A FOLLOW UP FOLLOW UP INTERVIEW
SURVEY WITH BUSINESS LEADERSHIP
USING POST CONSULTATION
WORKSHEET AND THAT ON PAGES
TWENTY EIGHT AND ON IT GOES
THROUGH THE METHODOLOGY OF EACH
EFFORT INCLUDING SURVEYS
VISUALLY CHECKING HOUSEHOLD
WASTE CONTAINERS ARE USE
ASSUMING THE PROPORTION
OF RECYCLING IDENTIFYING
DONINGTON SIGNIFICANT TYPES
OF CONTAMINATION AND ON HOW IS
SOMETHING THAT&apos;S IF IF THE
CONTRACTOR DOES NOT FOLLOW
THESE COMMITMENTS ON THE
CALENDAR THAT THEY&apos;VE PROVIDED
INCLUDING ASSESSMENTS AND
FEEDBACK AND SURVEY RESULTS.
HOW DO YOU HOW DO YOU DO YOU
RENEGOTIATE WITH A CONTRACTOR
OR CREATE ANOTHER FORM
EVALUATION PROCESS WE BUILT IN
IN NEGOTIATION WITH THE ECOLOGY
CENTER A REGULAR SCHEDULE
OF MEETINGS BETWEEN STAFF AND
THE ECOLOGY CENTER.
SO WE WILL BE ABLE TO ADDRESS
IT IF THERE&apos;S ANY ISSUES WITH
THERE PERFORMING THE WORK AS
OPPOSED TO THE CONTRACT THROUGH
THOSE MEETINGS WITH THE
INTENTION IS TO HAVE REGULAR
COMMUNICATION ABOUT THE WORK.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION.
FOR MY PART I&apos;M DELIGHTED THAT
THIS THIS CONTRACT MOVING
FORWARD THE ECOLOGY CENTER IS
OF COURSE A LOCAL ORGANIZATION
THAT DOES AND HAS FOR FOUR
YEARS NOW DONE OUTSTANDING WORK
IN OUR COMMUNITY WITH
PARTICULARITY IN THIS CONTEXT
WITH RESPECT TO RECYCLING
EDUCATION, RECYCLING EDUCATION
IS OF COURSE AN IMPERATIVE
BECAUSE WE HAVE NEW RESIDENTS
COMING IN ALL THE TIME AND
FURTHER THE THE RECYCLING
MARKETPLACE CHANGES ALL THE
TIME.
AND SO IT&apos;S INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT THAT WE HAVE THIS
ONGOING EDUCATION EFFORT
NECESSITATED BY A CHANGING
POPULATION AND CHANGING MARKET
EXIGENCIES.
I AM I&apos;M ENTIRELY CONFIDENT THE
GOOD WORK BY THE ECOLOGY CENTER
LOOK FORWARD TO ANN ARBOR
CONTINUING ITS ITS RECYCLING
EXCELLENCE FOR THE DISCUSSION
ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE STARTING
WITH ROLLCAST COUNCIL MEMBER
FOR ROLL CALL VOTE PLEASE START
WITH THE COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
OUTBREATH YES THAT&apos;S MY RAMLI
YES OR NO THAT&apos;S WHERE DID YES
THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
YES YES THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
YES THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
YES MAYOR TAYLOR YES MARIAH
YES.
COUNCILOR NELSON YES.
&gt;&gt; KERRY C9 RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE A CONTRACT WITH
PERGOLAS COMPANIES INC FOR THE
PURCHASE DELIVERY AND PLANTING
TREES LONG STREET RIGHTS OF WAY
THE AMOUNT OF FOUR HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY FOUR THOUSAND SEVENTY
FIVE DOLLARS MOVED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER I&apos;M LOUHI SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER THIS DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF CANINE COUNCIL MEMBER
LOAI THANK YOU.
UM THIS IS ANOTHER KIND
OF POLICY ISSUE WITH OUR TREE
PLANTING.
UH THEY&apos;RE JUST I DON&apos;T KNOW IF
THERE&apos;S BEEN RECENT ADOPTED
CHANGES IN OUR POLICIES.
I KNOW WE ASK FOR FOR SOME
THINGS FROM THE CONTRACTOR WHEN
THEY PLANT THESE TREES BUT
OBVIOUSLY HAS BEEN EVEN
NEWS ARTICLES WRITTEN ABOUT
THIS AND I&apos;M LIVE FROM
RESIDENTS WHO WHO HAVE GONE
AROUND AND AND SURVEYED THESE
TREES AND AFTER THEY&apos;VE BEEN
PLANTED AND SEEN THE MORTALITY
RATE ON THESE UM BEING HIGHER
THAN THAN THAN WE HAD HOPED OR
SHOULD BECAUSE OF THE LACK
OF OF WATERING AND THERE IS
JUST OBVIOUSLY EXTREME BENEFITS
TO THEIR LONGEVITY AND HEALTH
OF THOSE TREES.
&gt;&gt; UH, TO HAVE VERY FREQUENT
WATERING AND BEYOND THE FIRST
YEAR PERHAPS AND NOT JUST THAT
FIRST GROWING SEASON BUT FOR
MAYBE TWO YEARS OR SO.
AND SO WE&apos;RE PLANNING A LOT
OF TREES BUT UNFORTUNATELY WE
HAVEN&apos;T HAD A LOT OF SUCCESS IN
THE PAST AND I JUST HOPE AS WE
GO FORWARD IN THIS PROGRAM
OF REPLANTING TREES IS THAT WE
INVEST IN THE PROGRAMS TO TO
INTENSIVELY WATER THESE TREES
SO THAT WE GET A A MUCH BETTER
OUTCOME THEN.
AND SO MY QUESTION I GUESS HAS
ANY IN THE LAST YEAR OR SO
CHANGES IN OUR POLICY WHEN IT
COMES TO THESE SEEDLINGS AND
THESE PLANTINGS RIGHT.
WE ARE WORKING IN OUR URBAN
FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN I THINK
AND AS PART OF THAT WE&apos;RE
EVALUATING ALL OF OUR TREE
PLANTING PRACTICES AND OUR
MAINTENANCE PRACTICES.
WE HAVE BEEN TALKING INTERNALLY
ABOUT WATERING CROPS, WATERING,
UNDERSTANDING THAT IT&apos;S
DIFFICULT TO RESIDENT FOR THAT
ACTIVITY.
SO WE ARE HOPING ENFORCEMENT
OF THE PLAN WILL PROVIDE
RECOMMENDATION ON WATERING.
WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT TWO YEAR FOR
PLANTING AUTOMATICALLY FROM ONE
.
SO WHEN WE TALK ABOUT WHAT WE
PLAN TO DO IN THE FUTURE WE&apos;RE
LOOKING AT ADDING ANOTHER YEAR
OR TWO WATERING TO GUARANTEE A
HIGHER SUCCESS RATE OF OUR
TREES AND WE ARE PLANNING FOR
THAT RIGHT NOW TO TAKE ENTER
INTO OUR NEXT BUDGET CYCLE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S GREAT COUNCIL IN
BRITISH.
&gt;&gt; I WANTED TO NOTE THAT I
THINK WE ALL AS COUNCIL MEMBER
RIMAWI HAS JUST REMINDED
US WE
ALL REMEMBER THE END LIFE STORY
AND I THINK IT DID RAISE
CONCERNS AND STAFF ON THE
AGENDA RESPONSE MEMO STAFF DID
LET US KNOW THAT THEY ARE STILL
EXAMINING THE SURVEY TO SEE
WHAT WHAT THEIR OPINION OF IT
IS.
&gt;&gt; BUT THEY MADE AN IMPORTANT
OBSERVATION FOR US WHICH IS
THAT THE PERSON WHO DID THAT
SURVEY WHICH WAS IN WARD FIVE
INCLUDED TREES CATEGORIZED IN
FAIR CONDITION IN WHAT THEY
CLAIMED WAS THE 62 PERCENT
OF NOT THRIVING AND THAT&apos;S
PROBABLY NOT A CORRECT THING TO
DO.
THE STAFF RESPONSE SAYS THAT
MOST TREES IN URBAN FORESTS
FALL INTO THE FAIR CONDITION
READING AND THEY ARE THRIVING.
SO WHAT DOES FAIR MEAN?
IT APPLIES TO TREES WITH MINOR
STRUCTURAL PROBLEMS AND OR
MECHANICAL DAMAGE SIGNIFICANT
DAMAGE FROM NON-FATAL OR
DISFIGURING DISEASES AND MAYBE
THEY&apos;RE FLOURISHING LESS WELL
THAN ADJACENT TREES SO THEY MAY
NOT BE AS LARGE BUT THEY ARE
NOT DYING.
SO THE M SO I THINK THAT
THEY&apos;RE THE METHODOLOGY OF THE
SURVEY IS NOT QUITE WHAT WE
WOULD ASK FOR AND MAY HAVE
OVEREXAGGERATED THE FAILURE
RATE OF THESE TREES FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER FENER
YEAH THANKS A SENSE THIS IS OUT
HERE TO BE TALKED ABOUT JUST A
COUPLE OF COMMENTS SORT
OF PUBLIC KNOWLEDGE OF THESE
ONE THOUSAND TREES THREE
HUNDRED SEVENTY ARE CONSIDERED
SMALL TREES THAT WILL NEVER GET
ANY BIGGER THAN 20 TO 25 FEET
TO 25 FEET.
TWO HUNDRED AND SEVENTY FIVE
OF THEM ARE MEDIUM TREES WHICH
DEPENDING ON THE SPECIES COULD
COULD GO UP TO THIRTY FEET AND
THEN THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY
FIVE THE REMAINDER THE FINAL
THIRD ARE WHAT ARE CONSIDERED
LARGE TREES SO SIXTY FIVE
PERCENT OF THESE ARE SMALL OR
MEDIUM TREES AND I DON&apos;T KNOW
WHAT WE&apos;RE GETTING.
I MEAN I USED TO WORK AT A
NURSERY WE WERE A RETAIL
NURSERY SO I DON&apos;T KNOW HOW
THESE PRICES STAND UP WHEN YOU
LOOK AT IT&apos;S ABOUT 500 BUCKS A
TREE I DON&apos;T KNOW FOR PLANTING
LIKE A ONE INCH CALIPER TREE
LIKE WHEN WE TALK ABOUT SMALL
TREE LIKE A CRAB APPLE OR
SOMETHING I WANT TO SALVATORES
150 BUCKS OR WHATEVER RETAIL
THAT&apos;S WHICH IS MAYBE 300
RETAIL HOPEFULLY WITH ORDERS
OF UP TO A THOUSAND UNITS.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE NOT PAYING RETAIL FOR
THESE THINGS AND MUCH OF THE
COST IS THE PLANTING IN THE
FOLLOW UP MAINTENANCE.
THE ONE THING THAT STICKS OUT
FOR ME ABOUT THIS IS THAT AS
FOLKS MAY OR MAY NOT BE AWARE
THAT MOST OF OUR FORESTRY IN
FACT I THINK IT&apos;S ALL OF OUR
FORESTRY AND DEFINITELY THIS
TREE PLANTING IS COMING FROM
OUR STORMWATER FEES.
SO ALL THE MORE REASON TO BE
YOU KNOW, THOUGHT THAT I HOPE
THAT STAFF WILL CONTINUE TO DO
A THOROUGH FOLLOWING UP ON THIS
VENDOR.
I THINK THIS WAS ACTUALLY THE
ONLY PERSON I DON&apos;T KNOW IF I
READ THAT RIGHT IF IT WAS THE
ONLY VENDOR WHO WHO REPLIED TO
THE BID, I&apos;M NOT SURE I READ
THAT RIGHT.
BUT BECAUSE THERE&apos;S A BIG TAB
SO THERE MUST BE MORE THAN ONE
ANYWAY.
IT&apos;S A LOT OF MONEY WE SPENT A
LOT OF MONEY ON TREES AND
THEY&apos;RE NOT ALL GOING TO BE
MIGHTY OAKS SOMEDAY I ASSUME
THAT SOME OF THAT IS DETERMINED
BY THEIR ACTUAL PLACEMENT LIKE
WE WOULDN&apos;T BE WANTING TO PUT
OAKS UNDERNEATH THE EXISTING
POWER LINES AND THEN SUBJECT
THEM TO THE BRUTALIZING THEIR
DTI DOES WHEN THEY TRIM THEIR
RIGHT AWAY.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S ALL JUST A FEW
COMMENTS.
THANK YOU FOR THEIR DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
YEAH, I APPRECIATE THAT STAFF
IS TAKING A LOOK AT OUR OUR
POLICIES AND AND WITH REGARD TO
THE URBAN FOREST MANAGEMENT
PLAN, I DO THINK THAT THE
SURVEY THAT WAS THIS WAS A
GREAT COVID PROJECT TO THE
FIFTH WARD RESIDENT WHO WENT
AROUND AND AND VISITED ALL
OF THE TREES THAT WERE PLANTED
IN THE FIFTH WARD AND USED THE
SURVEY METHODOLOGY THAT THAT
THAT HE FOUND EXISTING WITHIN
OUR PLANS AND THEN PROVIDED US
WITH THE DATA ABOUT WHAT HE
FOUND AFTERWARDS AND BECAUSE HE
WAS A LITTLE BIT CONCERNED
ABOUT THAT THE RESULTS OF THAT
AND PROVIDED RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT I THINK IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
IMPORTANT THAT I THINK I THINK
HE&apos;S SITTING OUT IN THE URBAN
FOREST MANAGEMENT PLAN
COMMITTEE AND AS PART OF THAT
PROCESS THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S A GREAT
INCLUSION INTO THE CITY
PROCESS.
BUT I THINK ONE OF THE
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT CAME OUT
OF THAT WAS TO CONSIDER A
VOLUNTEER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
THAT WOULD ALLOW FOR RESIDENTS
TO CARE FOR TREES THAT WERE
PLANTED ALONG THE BLOCK.
AND I&apos;M HOPING THAT WE&apos;LL SEE
SOME OF THESE RECOMMENDATIONS.
I&apos;M SERIOUSLY CONSIDERED
INCLUDED.
I THINK WE YOU KNOW, WE ALL
WANT TO SEE THESE THESE TREES
THRIVE AND WE HAVE HAD WE&apos;VE
HAD SOME CHALLENGES AND WE NEED
TO ACKNOWLEDGE THAT OUR PROGRAM
IS ARE AREAS FOR IMPROVEMENT
HERE.
SO I&apos;M LOOKING FORWARD TO SEE
WHAT COMES TO THIS BUT I&apos;M
HOPING THAT WE CAN SEE THE
IMPROVEMENTS YEAR AFTER YEAR
FOR THE DISCUSSION.
I WAS EXCITED TO BE PART OF THE
COUNCIL THAT THAT WOULD
PARTICIPATE IN THE DEVELOPMENT
OF THE THE URBAN FORESTRY
MANAGEMENT PLAN AND THEN THE
ULTIMATE FULLY FUNDING OF THE
URBAN FANTASY MANAGEMENT PLAN.
AND I&apos;M EXCITED AGAIN THAT THAT
WE CONTINUE TO FUND THAT WE
CONTINUE TO PLANT OUR STREET
TREES AND ALONG THE WAY PRUNE
OUR STREET TREES.
THE OUR STREET TREES ARE AN
INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT PART
OF THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY.
THEY BRING STORMWATER BENEFITS
OF COURSE FIRST AND FOREMOST IN
THIS CONTEXT BUT ALSO OBVIOUSLY
SHADING QUALITY OF LIFE,
TEMPERATURE, AIR QUALITY AND
AND JUST GENERAL NEIGHBORHOOD
HAPPINESS TO SO MANY FOLKS
THROUGHOUT OUR CITY.
I&apos;M EXCITED THAT WE&apos;RE MOVING
FORWARD ON THIS.
I LOOK FORWARD TO THE CONTINUED
ITERATIVE WORK OF STAFF,
COLLEAGUES AND AND RESIDENT
VOLUNTEERS SO THAT URBAN
FORESTRY MANAGEMENT PLAN CAN
CAN NEVER IMPROVE FURTHER
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
&gt;&gt; IT IS APPROVED A TEN
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT TO
SZOSTAK CONSTRUCTION INC.
BUT THE STREET PREVENTATIVE
MAINTENANCE PROJECT FISCAL YEAR
TWENTY TWENTY THREE RFP NUMBER
TWENTY TWO THIRTY SEVEN ON THE
AMOUNT OF FOUR MILLION FIVE
HUNDRED SEVENTY SEVEN THOUSAND
THREE HUNDRED AND FIFTY FOUR
DOLLARS AND NINETY FIVE SINCE
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE TEN
COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER.
&gt;&gt; THANKS.
I&apos;M JUST ONE TO PULL THIS OUT
BECAUSE I&apos;M NOT GOING TO VOTE
FOR THIS BECAUSE I DON&apos;T
BELIEVE THAT OUR RFP PROCESSES
ARE BEST PRACTICE AND
FURTHERMORE I DON&apos;T THINK THERE
A FAIR PRACTICE AND I THINK THE
RESIDENTS SHOULD BE AWARE THAT
40 PERCENT OF THE DECISION THAT
IS MADE ON HUTA WOULD PROVIDE
THIS CONTRACT TO YOU IS BASED
ON SOMEWHAT TANGIBLE AND
SOMEWHAT INTANGIBLE
CALCULATIONS.
TWENTY PERCENT WORKFORCE
DEVELOPMENT.
SO WE&apos;RE PAYING PRIVATE
ENTITIES TO DEVELOP THEIR
WORKFORCE ESSENTIALLY AND 20
PERCENT SOCIAL EQUITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY SUCH AS THAT IS
DEFINED AND SO I JUST WANT TO
PULL THIS OUT BECAUSE I WHILE I
SUPPORT THE NEED TO DO THE
WORK, I DO NOT SUPPORT THE
METHOD BY WHICH WE HAVE OUR
CHOOSING VENDORS FOR THIS TYPE
OF WORK FOR THE DISCUSSION WELL
ABOUT PLEASE START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS.
YES, MY YES OPERATOR NO
ELSEWHERE.
YES THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
GRISWOLD YES.
YES COUNTERPROGRAM.
YES THAT&apos;S VERY DENHA.
YES YES THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
&gt;&gt; YES THAT&apos;S FAIR ENOUGH.
YES I THINK SEE A14 RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE A CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACT WITH PIQU
CONSTRUCTING LLC FOR PAVEMENT
MARKETING MAINTENANCE AND E TWO
VISION ZERO QUICK BUILD PROJECT
FISCAL YEAR TWENTY TWENTY THREE
IN THE AMOUNT OF SIX HUNDRED
NINETY EIGHT THOUSAND EIGHT
HUNDRED AND EIGHT DOLLARS AND
NINETY TWO CENTS MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER SECOND BY
COUNCIL DISCUSSION OF 014
COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER THANKS.
SO WE HAVE BEFORE US
APPROXIMATELY SEVEN HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS OF PAVEMENT
MARKING AND IT&apos;S COMBINED TO
PAVEMENT MARKING MAINTENANCE
AND A2 VISION ZERO QUICK BUILD
PROJECT AND TRIED TO DO MY OWN
CALCULATING LOOKING AT THE
BIDDER&apos;S CALCULATIONS AS TO
WHAT PERCENTAGE WAS WHAT
BECAUSE THEY WEREN&apos;T SEPARATE
THE DISCUSSION WAS SEPARATED
BUT THE THE I THE BEST I COULD
COME UP WITH WAS AT LEAST A
THIRD OF THIS IS GOING TOWARDS
THE VISION ZERO PROJECT AND
MAYBE EVEN MORE AND THAT WAS
JUST BASED ON GREEN PAINT
CHERYL&apos;S BIKE ARROW&apos;S BIKE
MARKS AND THE CAMPAIGN AT THESE
INTERSECTIONS WHICH IS A NEW
APPROACH I WAS LOOKING AT THE
YOU THE VARIOUS PLAN VIEWS
OF THIS PROJECT SO I WAS JUST
WONDERING IF WE HAD A SENSE
OF HOW MUCH OF THIS WAS TYPICAL
PAVEMENT MAINTENANCE THAT WE DO
DOING AROUND OUR COMMUNITY AND
HOW MUCH OF THIS WAS THIS
VISION ZERO QUICK BUILD IF
ANYBODY.
MR HUTCHINSON, I WILL TURN THIS
OVER TO YOU.
RAYMOND HAS OUR TRANSPORTATION
MANAGER TO RESPOND TO THIS GOOD
EVENING.
COUNCIL HAS TRANSPORTATION
MANAGER FOR THE CITY.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF I CAN SPEAK TO
THE PROPORTION OF THE CONTRACT
FOR TODAY IN TERMS OF HOW MUCH
OF THIS GOES TO THE, YOU KNOW,
STANDARD PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE
OF PAID ON OUR PAYMENT MARKETS
AND THINGS OF THAT NATURE.
BUT I CAN JUST SPEAK BRIEFLY
THE QUICK THOUGH, WHICH IS YOU
KNOW, WITH THE ADOPTION OF THE
TRANSPORTATION PLAN THAT
OCCURRED LAST YEAR, THERE&apos;S AN
EMPHASIS ON THESE SORT
OF INTERIM IMPROVEMENTS THAT WE
CALL QUICK BUILD WHICH IN LIEU
OF WAITING FOR AN INTERSECTION
TO BE REBUILT, WE CAN PAINT AND
POSTS AND QUICKLY MAKE CHANGES
TO AN INTERSECTION AT A LOWER
CAPITAL COST THAN REBUILDING
THAT ENTIRE CONSTRUCTION.
SO OR REBUILDING THAT ENTIRE
INTERSECTION, YOU KNOW, IN
TERMS OF THE REST OF THE
PAYMENT MARKETING CONTRACT, I
KNOW THERE ARE OTHER MEMBERS IN
THE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT TO
HELP MANAGE THAT AND IT&apos;S
LARGELY PREVENTIVE MAINTENANCE
IN NATURE AS I UNDERSTAND IT
WHEN THEY GO IN AND THEY LOOK
AT KIND OF QUALITY PAYMENT
MARKETING FOR IT BE CROSSWALKS,
THE LONG LINES BETWEEN
LANES,
BIKE LANES AND SO FORTH AND SO
ON AND ALL OF THAT
IS KIND OF A
BIKE BUT I KNOW SPECIFICALLY
ADDRESS THE KIND OF DIVISION
BETWEEN HOW MUCH IN THE ROUTINE
MAINTENANCE VERSUS WHAT&apos;S QUICK
BUILD.
WE ADDED THE QUICK BUILD TO
THIS JUST BECAUSE WE TRIED TO
GET SOME ECONOMIES OF SCALE BY
PIGGYBACKING OFF OF AN EXISTING
CONTRACT.
IF I COULD ADD REAL QUICKLY
THERE IN THE IN THE REVENUE
BREAKDOWN IN THE IN THE MEMO
THERE&apos;S A LINE FOR AMERICAN
RESCUE PLAN ACT OF FUNDING FOR
APPROXIMATELY TWO HUNDRED
NINETY TWO THOUSAND THAT IS THE
PORK BILL PORTION OF THE
CONTRACT RIGHT THERE.
COUNCIL MEMBER GRANT I THINK MR
HUTCHINSON ACTUALLY ANSWERED
THE QUESTION BUT BUT ON PAGE IN
OUR PACKET IT DOES BRING DOWN
UM FOUR HUNDRED FORTY FIVE
THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR
MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING PAYMENT
MARKINGS AND THE REMAINDER FOR
A QUICK BUILD UP.
SO IT&apos;S I THINK RIGHT THERE AND
I&apos;LL JUST TAKE A SECOND TO
EXPRESS MY ENTHUSED ASM FOR
THIS PROJECT THERE.
THIS IS THE DIRECTION WE WANT
TO BE GOING AND THAT&apos;S, YOU
KNOW, RELATIVELY INEXPENSIVE
AND WE GET A LOT OF SAFETY FOR
A FAIRLY SMALL INVESTMENT.
SO I JUST WANT TO THANK THE
TRANSPORTATION SECTOR FOR
MOVING FORWARD WITH THIS AND
FINDING A WAY TO GET SOME
ECONOMIES OF SCALE AND PROCESS
.
COUNCILOR GRISWOLD,
UNFORTUNATELY I WILL NOT BE
SUPPORTING THIS.
&gt;&gt; I FEEL LIKE THE TERM VISION
ZERO HAS BEEN BY THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR VISION ZERO IS A
VERY RIGOROUS PROCESS THAT
INCLUDES EVALUATION.
IT INCLUDES LOOKING AT CRASH
DATA AND TRYING TO PREVENT
CRASHES.
IN JULY WE HAD TO INJURY
CRASHES PEDESTRIANS WHO WERE
INJURED.
I LOVE GREEN PAINT AS MUCH AS
THE NEXT PERSON BUT WHY AREN&apos;T
WE EVALUATING THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT&apos;S BEEN
BUILT AND I&apos;LL JUST GIVE YOU
ONE WELL TWO EXAMPLES.
ONE IS WE&apos;VE GOT VEGETATION ALL
OVER THIS CITY AND WE ARE NOT
TRIMMING IT TO IMPROVE SIGHT
DISTANCE AND CRASHES ARE
HAPPENING NO TO THE AND BETWEEN
COMMUNITY HIGH SCHOOL AND KERRY
TOWN.
I SENT AN EMAIL TODAY THE MEDIA
NO ONE IS RESPONSIBLE FOR
VEGETATION IS NOW FOUR FEET
TALL.
&gt;&gt; A PERSON IN A WHEELCHAIR IS
NOT VISIBLE WHEN THEY&apos;RE IN THE
CROSSWALK AT THAT MEDIAN.
SO UNTIL WE SERIOUSLY EVALUATE
OUR EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURE AND
START TAKING ACTION TO REDUCE
THE NUMBER OF CRASHES, I JUST
CAN&apos;T SUPPORT IT.
I&apos;M VERY TROUBLED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, SIR HAYNER HEY,
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S A GOOD POINT.
COUNCILWOMAN GRISWOLD.
I HAVE GOT DOZENS OF PHOTOS
OF FOLIAGE OBSCURING SIGHT
LINES HANGING OVER DIRECTIONAL
ARROW SPEED LIMIT SIGNS AND SO
ON AND SO ON ALL THE COMMUNITY
SO I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT WE CAN DO
TO PICK THAT TRIMMING UP.
I MEAN I&apos;VE TAKEN A COUPLE UPON
MYSELF BECAUSE I CARRY PRUNERS
IN MY TRUCK.
I DON&apos;T KNOW THE FOR THERE&apos;S
THREE FOLKS ON THE SCREEN HERE
IF SOMEBODY WOULD LIKE TO
ANSWER THE STATEMENT THAT WAS
PUT FORWARD ARE WE GETTING A
LOT OF SAFETY FOR THIS MONEY
AND HOW DO WE KNOW?
YES, IF I MAY.
SO THIS IS DRIVEN BY DATA.
WE DO HAVE A CONSULTANT THAT&apos;S
HELPING US WITH THIS.
SAM SCHWARTZ IS THE SAME
CONSULTANT WHO HELPED US PLAN
IT IS DATA DRIVEN SO ALL
LOCATIONS THAT ARE INCLUDED IN
THE QUICK BUILD ARE ON OUR TIER
ONE OR TIER TWO SAFETY
INTERSECTIONS AND OR CORDLESS
AND ALL OF THE COUNTERMEASURES
THAT ARE BEING APPLIED ARE
APPROPRIATE COUNTERMEASURES.
&gt;&gt; LOOKING AT THE TRAFFIC CRASH
PATTERN, WE HAVE BEEN VETTING
THESE WITH THE VISIONS
IMPLEMENTATION COMMITTEE SO
THERE&apos;S BEEN A STEERING
COMMITTEE THAT&apos;S HOPING THAT
THESE IDEAS REVIEWING THE PLANS
WITH US AND WE&apos;VE BEEN GIVING
REGULAR UPDATES TO THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
&gt;&gt; SO YES, I THINK IT&apos;S VERY
MUCH VISIONS ARE FOCUSED VERY
MUCH FOCUSED ON DATA DRIVEN
APPROACHES AS WELL AS
COUNTERMEASURES THAT ARE BEST
THE UNDERLYING CAUSES COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS I THINK MR HAS
ANSWERED THE QUESTION THAT I
WAS GOING TO ASK YOU TO
REMEMBER HAYNER FOR PROPOSING
THAT I THINK IT&apos;S PRETTY CLEAR
THAT WE WENT THROUGH A PRETTY
RIGOROUS PROCESS IN OUR
COMMUNITY TO DEVELOP
COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN.
PART OF THAT PROCESS WAS REALLY
EVALUATING THE SOURCE OF IT WAS
IT WAS DRIVEN BY THE CONCEPT
OF VISION ZERO AND IDENTIFYING
WHERE CRASHES ARE EXISTING IN
OUR COMMUNITY, IDENTIFYING
APPROPRIATE COUNTERMEASURES AND
WE HAVE A PRETTY DETAILED PLAN
TO LOOK AT IF WE HAVE QUESTIONS
ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT WE ARE
HAVING A DATA DRIVEN APPROACH
TO THIS STRATEGY THREE OF THAT
PLAN IN THE SHORT TERM WAS TO
DEVELOP A QUICK BUILD
IMPLEMENTATION IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM WHICH WE UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTED THIS PLAN.
AND SO MR HAS TALKED ABOUT THE
PROCESS THAT WE&apos;VE USED
FOLLOWING THAT WITH THE VISION
ZERO IMPLEMENTATION
SUBCOMMITTEE BRINGING IN A SAM
SCHWARTZ TO CONTINUE HELPING
WITH THIS PROCESS TO MAKE SURE
WE&apos;RE USING DEVELOPING THESE
WHEN IMPLEMENTING THESE TOOLS
APPROPRIATELY IN OUR OWN
COMMUNITY AND THEN BRINGING
THEM THROUGH TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION AND NOW TO COUNCIL.
SO I&apos;M PRETTY PRETTY PROUD
OF WHERE OUR COMMUNITY IS
HEADED AND EXCITED ABOUT THE
PROCESS THAT WE&apos;RE USING.
&gt;&gt; KELSO GRISWOLD.
YES.
I MEAN NO DISRESPECT FOR STEYR
.
THIS COUNCIL SETS POLICIES AND
THEY HAVE POLICIES THAT SAY
IGNORE THE VEGETATION.
WE MOVE FROM ONE SHINY NEW
PROJECT TO ANOTHER AND WE NEVER
EVALUATE.
WE GO THROUGH THIS DATA DRIVEN
PROCESS BUT IT&apos;S VERY
SUPERFICIAL.
THERE IS NO EXCUSE FOR WHY WE
HAVE FOUR FEET OF VEGETATION IN
A MEDIAN ON A ONE WAY STREET.
BACK TO THE QUESTION ABOUT WHY
WE EVEN HAVE THAT MEDIAN AND NO
ONE IS RESPONSIBLE FOR IT.
THE TICKET HAS BEEN IN FOR OVER
A WEEK AND WHO IS RESPONSIBLE
FOR THAT?
A TRUE VISION ZERO COMMUNITY
WOULD BE ADDRESSING ALL
OF THESE DANGERS IN OUR
COMMUNITY AND INSTEAD WE JUST
GO TO THE NEXT NEW PROJECT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER.
SORRY.
THANKS.
SEEMS LIKE A LIVELY DISCUSSION
AND MORE POLICY ISSUE.
APPRECIATE BEING HERE TO ANSWER
QUESTIONS.
UM YOU KNOW IT&apos;S ONE OF THESE
THINGS IT UM IT&apos;LL BE AN
ONGOING DEBATE.
UM WE STILL AFTER MANY YEARS
HERE DISCUSSION AS TO WHY ONE
ROAD GETS AHEAD OF ANOTHER ONE
AND ETC. AND WHEN WE LOOK AT
THESE IMPROVEMENTS UM YEAH I
SEE SOME ARE DONE IN SOME YOU
KNOW, AREAS THAT I THINK ARE
WARRANTED AND THEN I LOOK AT
SOME OTHERS AND I THINK WELL
THAT DOESN&apos;T REALLY MAKE A
WHOLE LOT OF SENSE TO BE
INVESTING IN SOME OF THESE
OTHER ONES WHEN WE HAVE SO MANY
OTHER ISSUES.
AND THE PROBLEM THAT I HAD WITH
THESE BUILD IS THAT WE HAVE SO
MUCH OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE THAT
ARE FAILING OR FALLING APART
AND WE&apos;RE PUTTING IT TOGETHER.
WE&apos;RE PUTTING IN SPENDING MONEY
ON TEMPORARY MEASURES THAT ARE
FLEETING AND THAT&apos;S IT.
THAT&apos;S I DON&apos;T I DON&apos;T LIKE
DOING THAT ON A PERSONAL LEVEL
.
I&apos;D RATHER SEE US INVEST OUR
MONEY WISELY AND GET A GOOD
RETURN ON THAT AND UNDERSTAND
SOME OF THIS WAS FREE MONEY.
WE&apos;RE PLAYING WITH HOUSE MONEY
NOW AND SO LET IT LET YOU KNOW
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO GET IN THE WAY
OF THAT.
UM, YOU KNOW, I JUST NOTICED
ESPECIALLY THE DOWNTOWN AREA
WITH THE NEW PROTECTED BIKE
LANES THAT GREEN PAINT LASTS
ABOUT SIX MONTHS.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE SPENDING AN AWFUL LOT
OF MONEY AND SOME MAINTENANCE
WELL OTHER AREAS UH, DON&apos;T GET
THE ATTENTION BECAUSE
OF FUNDING.
SO YOU KNOW, AS I&apos;M ON MY WAY
BUT I CONTINUE TO STRESS THE
IMPORTANCE IN INVESTING IN
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WILL BE
THERE FOR FOR A GENERATION OR
TWO AND NOT FOR A SEASON OR
TWO.
UM AND SO I&apos;LL END IT WITH THIS
QUESTION HOW LONG IS THAT GREEN
PAINT SUPPOSED TO LAST?
I MEAN BECAUSE IT DOESN&apos;T SEEM
TO LAST AS LONG AS ANY OTHER
MARKETING THAT WE PUT DOWN ON
PAVEMENT
COUNCIL REMEMBER I
MIGHT HAVE TO GET BACK TO YOU.
WE HAVE SOMEONE ON OUR STAFF
WHO HELPS MANAGE THE SPECIFICS
OF THE GREEN PAINT AND PROBABLY
HAS A BETTER IDEA OF HOW LONG
THAT THAT LASTS.
&gt;&gt; BUT I CAN&apos;T GIVE A SPECIFIC
ANSWER IN TERMS OF WHAT OUR
EXPERIENCE HAS IN TERMS OF HOW
LONG I DON&apos;T KNOW IF NICK OR
DAVE HAVE OTHER IMPRESSIONS ON
THAT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I ONE THING I DON&apos;T
KNOW THE SPECIFIC ANSWER TO
THAT EITHER.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW THE FINAL TREATMENT
IS SHOULD LAST A LOT LONGER
THAN SIX MONTHS.
WHAT MAY BE SEEN IN SOME PLACES
AROUND DOWNTOWN IS WHERE A
TEMPORARY PAINT WAS PUT DOWN
NEAR THE END OF THE SEASON WHEN
THE WEATHER WAS NOT ADEQUATE TO
PUT DOWN A PERMANENT PAVEMENT
MARKINGS SO THAT THAT COULD BE
WHAT YOU&apos;RE SEEING IN THE
DOWNTOWN AREA.
&gt;&gt; UM, I CAN&apos;T REMEMBER BRIGS.
I WANT TO GIVE MR. HAAS MR.
HUTCHINSON AN OPPORTUNITY TO
TALK ABOUT THE UTILITY OF QUICK
BUILD PROJECTS.
OBVIOUSLY THERE ARE SOME WE
WOULD LOVE TO HAVE THE MONEY TO
TO PERMANENTLY BUILD MANY
OF THESE THESE PIECES.
BUT I DO WANT TO GIVE YOU THE
OPPORTUNITY TO DISCUSS THIS IS
MORE THAN JUST PAINT ON THE ON
THE GROUND.
NOTHING THAT I DO FIND UTILITY
IN THAT.
BUT TO DISCUSS A LITTLE BIT WHY
WHY WE&apos;RE USING TO BUILD
PROJECTS
.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, I CAN TAKE A STAB AT
IT.
YOU KNOW, FIRST OF ALL I THINK
IF WE LOOK AT, YOU KNOW, THE
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN, JUST
LOOK AT HOW LONG IT TAKES FOR A
MAJOR CAPITAL PROJECT TO KIND
OF GO THROUGH THE PROCESS
OF DESIGN POSSIBLY ACQUISITION
ENGAGEMENT ALL THOSE STEPS IT
TAKES YEARS ALL THE PROJECTS
THAT ARE UP FOR RECONSTRUCTION
REBUILD OR RESURFACING ARE
PROJECTS THAT HAVE BEEN IN THE
PIPELINE FOR YEARS
ACKNOWLEDGING THAT A MAJOR
REBUILD WAITING THAT TIME
BEFORE WE ADDRESS A NEW SAFETY
CONCERN BECOMES PROBLEMATIC.
AND SO THE IDEA OF QUICK BUILD
IS TO GO OUT USED MATERIALS
THAT ARE READILY AVAILABLE SUCH
AS PAINT SUCH AS DELINEATOR AND
POST.
SO WE CALL THEM PAINT AND POST
PROJECT WHERE WE CAN CREATE A
BUFFER.
&gt;&gt; YOU CAN CREATE, YOU KNOW,
THE SORT OF TRAFFIC CALMING
SORT OF EFFECT THAT WE&apos;RE
LOOKING FOR.
&gt;&gt; WE CAN IMPROVE THE
ENVIRONMENT PEDESTRIANS,
CYCLISTS, TRANSIT USERS AND
MOTORISTS AS WELL WITH THESE
PAINT AND POST TYPE PROJECTS
AND THEY ARE NOT NECESSARILY
MEANT TO BE INTERRUPTED PER
SAY.
&gt;&gt; THEY&apos;RE JUST MEANT TO
UTILIZE MATERIALS THAT ARE
READILY AVAILABLE WHEN WE
EVALUATE THEIR EFFECTIVENESS,
HOW WELL WE&apos;RE DOING AND THEN
WE PROGRAM THEM FOR A MAJOR
CAPITAL PROJECT AS IT&apos;S ALLOWED
FOR.
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S A WAY TO START
MAKING KIND OF INCREMENTAL AND
VAST CHANGES TO THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT TO HELP ACHIEVE
THOSE EFFICIENCY OUTCOMES.
&gt;&gt; WE HOPE TO ACHIEVE FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER SONG
I&apos;M REFLECTING BACK TO WHEN
STAFF HAD WORKED ON OR HAD
CONSIDERED THE AREHART CLOSURE
POSSIBILITIES WITH A QUICK
BUILD AND PAINT TO REDUCE
CRASHES AREHART AND CLOSURE SO
THAT A GOOD EXAMPLE OF WHAT
WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT WHEN I BELIEVE
PREVIOUS COUNCIL HAD VOTED
AGAINST I THINK WAS ABOUT AN
EIGHTY K IMPROVEMENT TO REDUCE
CRASHES BY 50 PERCENT AT THE
INTERSECTION IN THIS QUICK
BUILDS WE ARE LOOKING AT SAFETY
AS A PRIMARY CONSIDERATION,
CORRECT?
&gt;&gt; THAT IS CORRECT AND USING IT
AS AN EXAMPLE.
THE IDEA WAS A COUPLE OF YEARS
AGO WHEN WE BROUGHT THAT IDEA
FORWARD THAT THAT WOULD BE A
SORT OF INTERIM TREATMENT SO IT
WOULD POST PROPOSED TREATMENT
AND THEN WHEN THE CAPITAL
PROJECT WAS GOING TO COME
THROUGH WHICH I BELIEVE WAS A
TWENTY TWENTY FOUR PROJECT OR
2023 PROJECT THEN THAT WOULD
MAKE THOSE CHANGES PERMANENT.
AND SO NOW WE&apos;RE UP AGAINST THE
PERMANENT PROJECT NOW WE MAY
NOT HAVE ENOUGH BUDGET TO DO
FULL SCALE CONCRETE WORK BUT
STILL INCORPORATING A LOT
OF THE SAME SAFETY CONCEPTS.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE WORKING ON PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT RIGHT NOW ON
PROJECTS SO THAT WE CAN TIE
THAT UP FOR CONSTRUCTION THIS
YEAR.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
RAKOVA WE START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS COUNCIL MEMBER.
YES COUNCIL MEMBER LOUI YES.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILOR HAYNER NO
COUNCILOR DEATH YES.
NO GRISWOLD NO COUNCILOR SA
YES.
COUNCILOR GRAHAM YES.
COUNCILOR DENHA YES.
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
COUNCILOR ER YES THAT&apos;S RIGHT
NELSON YES AND SEE EIGHTEEN
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE THE
LETTER OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN
THE CITY AND THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY OF ANN
ARBOR DAY TO CANCEL THE JOINT
WORK SESSION REQUIRED BY THE
PARKING AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE
CITY AND THE DATED JULY ONE,
2011 AS AMENDED MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HAYNER SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER GRANT DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF KATINE COUNCIL MEMBER
HAYNER WELL THANK YOU.
THE PARKING AGREEMENT WE HAVE
WITH THE D-DAY COMES WITH A
JOINT WORKING SESSION
REQUIREMENT IN MY MIND BECAUSE
WE GRANT THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY THE
RESPONSIBILITY AND OPPORTUNITY
TO MAKE A LOT OF MONEY MANAGING
OUR PARKING STRUCTURES AND THIS
JOINT WORKING SESSION IS ONE
OF THE PUBLIC WAYS THAT WE CAN
HAVE CONVERSATIONS WITH THE
GRANTEE OF THIS OPPORTUNITY AND
I&apos;M NOT WILLING TO HAVE THAT
HAVE MY VOICE EFFECTED BY PROXY
AND I DON&apos;T THINK THE REST
OF YOU SHOULD EITHER.
THERE&apos;S JOINT WORKING SESSION
OPPORTUNITIES ARE FEW AND FAR
BETWEEN.
WE COULDN&apos;T GET THE UNIVERSITY
REGENTS TO HAVE ONE.
HERE&apos;S ONE THAT WE HAVE BY
CONTRACT DON&apos;T RENEGE ON OUR
RESPONSIBILITY IS TO OVERSEE
THE DDA.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M GOING TO VOTE NO TO THIS
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILOR BRIMLEY, THANK
YOU.
AND PEOPLE IN THE OPPONENTS
OF THIS IS THIS SHOULD BE
ALARMING TO THE COMMUNITY.
UM, WE HAVE A NEW HEAD OF THE
DDA UM WE HAVEN&apos;T WORKED WITH
MUCH AT ALL COMING OUT OF COVID
THE MOST AFFECTED PART OF THE
CITY WAS BY A LARGE MEASURE THE
DDA THE FUTURE PARKING THE
FUTURE OF CARS THE RIGHT AWAY
ISSUES THAT WE&apos;RE HAVING THE
RIGHT AWAY ISSUES ARE DEALING
WITH AGAIN THE NEW LEADERSHIP
AFTER TWENTY YEARS OF SUSAN
POWELL BEING THERE, UM NOT TO
HAVE SOMETHING THAT HAS BEEN
CUSTOMARY IN TRADITION FOR FOR
WELL OVER ABOUT A DOZEN YEARS
BY THE BY THIS RESOLUTION SEEMS
UM SEEMS WRONG DOESN&apos;T SEEM
DOESN&apos;T SEEM LIKE WE&apos;RE DOING
WHAT WE WERE ELECTED TO DO BUT
WE GET PAID FIFTY OR FIFTY
DOLLARS A MONTH TO DO AND THAT
IS TO UH BE FULLY ENGAGED AND
TO CANCEL A WORK SESSION UM
THAT YOU ONLY HAVE ONE TIME
OF YEAR UM AND WE&apos;VE GUTTED SO
MUCH OF WHAT THE COUNCIL WAS
DOING.
NOW WE&apos;RE DOING UH VERY LITTLE
IN TERMS OF WORK SESSIONS AND
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT WHEN IT COMES
SETTING POLICY AND HERE WE HAVE
WE HAVE ONE HERE WHERE I THINK
THIS IS THIS IS HUGE NOT TO
HAVE THIS MEETING.
THIS IS NOT LIKE UH TWENTY
TWENTY OR TWENTY TWENTY ONE.
THERE ARE A LOT OF CHANGES AND
UH KNOW I&apos;M SURE THAT THEY&apos;RE
GOING TO HAPPEN BUT ARE THEY
GOING TO HAPPEN IN THE PUBLIC
SPHERE?
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO HAPPEN WITH
WITH THE INVOLVEMENT OF THE
ELECTED BODY OR SOME OTHER WAY
.
I CAN&apos;T SUPPORT THIS AND I URGE
MY COLLEAGUES TO SUPPORT THIS.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS TOO IMPORTANT TO
PASS UP COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS.
WELL, I DON&apos;T FEEL QUITE
ALARMIST ABOUT THIS BUT I DO
THINK THAT THIS IS AN IMPORTANT
POINT THAT WE HAVE BETWEEN THE
DDA ONCE A YEAR AND IT GETS IT
IS HELPFUL ESPECIALLY SINCE WE
DO HAVE A NEW DENHA DIRECTOR TO
TO HAVE THIS MEETING THIS YEAR
AND I THINK IT&apos;S HELPFUL TO
HAVE IT EVERY YEAR FOR US TO
HAVE A STRONG UNDERSTANDING
OF WHAT THE DAY IS DOING.
AND I THINK THIS IS AN
IMPORTANT ENTITY AND I SUPPORT
CONTINUING THIS FOR MY PART I&apos;M
GOING TO BE A SUPPORTING THE
RESOLUTION.
I THINK WE HAVE A NUMBER
OF DIFFERENT DATA POINTS ABOUT
UH ABOUT TEN ELEVEN DATA POINTS
OF WORK SESSIONS IN THE PAST
THAT HAVE I THINK DEMONSTRABLY
BEEN OF LIMITED UTILITY.
CERTAINLY IT&apos;S IMPORTANT THAT
THE DENHA DRAFT POLICY IN THE
OPEN AND INDEED THEY DO IT&apos;S
IMPORTANT THAT THE THAT WE HAVE
ENGAGEMENT WITH THE DDA AND
INDEED WE DO NO SMALL MEASURE
THEN AND LET IT BE THE
ADMINISTRATOR HIMSELF SERVING
ON THE ON THE BOARD.
THE BOTTOM LINE IS THAT THERE
CAN ALSO BE A FAIR BIT
OF COMMUNICATION THAT COMES TO
US FROM THE DAY THAT COMES TO
THE PUBLIC AS A WHOLE FROM THE
DDA THROUGH WEBINARS MUCH LIKE
WE&apos;VE BEEN DOING OF LATE WITH
OUR MOST RECENT BUDGET SESSION
THIS WAY THE DATA FROM THE
DENHA COMMUNICATION AND
EDUCATION IS IS NECESSARY AND
USEFUL CAN BE HERE FOR EVERYONE
AT ALL TIMES WITHOUT THE
WITHOUT THE NEED FOR THE THE
WITHOUT THE NEED FOR THE
MEETING.
THAT HAS NOT BEEN IN MY VIEW
ONE WHERE THERE HAS BEEN
PARTICULARLY EFFECTIVE
CONVERSATION BETWEEN DENHA
MEMBERS AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
&gt;&gt; AND SO IN MY VIEW THAT WE
ARE MAKING THE PROCESS MORE
EFFICIENT NOT LOSING CITY
ENGAGEMENT AND WE ALSO DO NOT
INHIBIT DEDE&apos;S COMMUNICATION TO
COUNCIL TO THE PUBLIC ABOUT
MATTERS OF IMPORTANCE TO BOTH
AND THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; AND THIS WAS SOMETHING THAT
CAME UP AT THE COUNCIL
ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE WITH
MR AHONEN SITTING ON THE IDEA.
I THINK THERE WERE ALSO SOME
LOGISTICAL UM, CONCERNS ABOUT
GETTING BOTH BOARDS INTO A INTO
A ROOM THAT THAT COULD BE
TELEVISED.
I WON&apos;T SPEAK TO ANYONE ELSE ON
THIS BODY.
I&apos;LL JUST SPEAK TO MY OWN
IMPENDING IRRELEVANCE THAT YOU
KNOW, A MEETING IN
OCTOBER RIGHT BEFORE A MAJOR
TURNOVER OF THE COUNCIL, IT WAS
A CONSIDERATION WITH YOU KNOW,
WITH SO MANY NEW MEMBERS OF THE
COUNCIL COMING ON IN NOVEMBER
THAT THERE WAS JUST FOR YOU
KNOW, IT DOESN&apos;T MEAN THAT WE
GIVE IT UP EVERY YEAR BUT FOR
THIS PARTICULAR YEAR IT MADE
SENSE TO PUT A PAUSE TILL WE
COULD, YOU KNOW, WORK OUT THE
LOGISTICS OF GETTING EVERYONE
AGAIN IN THE ROOM SAT THROUGH
MANY OF THESE MEETINGS.
SOME HAVE BEEN MORE PRODUCTIVE
THAN OTHERS.
BUT I WAS COMFORTABLE WITH MR
TONY&apos;S PRESENTATION ON THAT
BOARD HAVING THAT THAT WE CAN
TAKE CARE OF THINGS ALSO
THERE&apos;S NOTHING THAT PRECLUDES
ANY COUNCIL MEMBER FROM
SPEAKING TO MEMBERS OF THE
MEDIA AND HAVING CONVERSATIONS
WITH THEM.
SO IF THERE&apos;S A PARTICULAR
INTEREST I&apos;D ENCOURAGE YOU TO
JUST REACH OUT TO THE
LEADERSHIP DIRECTLY.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILOR GRISWOLD?
&gt;&gt; YES.
I WANT TO TAKE THIS OPPORTUNITY
TO WELCOME GEOFFREY WATSON.
I PERSONALLY MET HIM AT A
LISTENING SESSION LAST WEEK AND
I ALSO WANT TO THANK HIM FOR
POINTING OUT SOME OF HIS
CONCERNS WITH PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
IN THE DDA AREA.
&gt;&gt; SO WELCOME AND THANK YOU FOR
YOUR PERSPECTIVE.
COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I PLAN TO OPPOSE THIS
RESOLUTION ON PRINCIPLE FOR A
LOT OF THE REASONS THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER GLAD WE MENTIONED.
I DO APPRECIATE THE
CLARIFICATION THAT THE TIMING
OF THIS PARTICULAR MEETING WILL
INCLUDE A LOT OF MEMBERS WHO
ARE EFFECTIVELY NOT MOVING
FORWARD AND RELEVANT TO
DECISIONS MOVING FORWARD.
BUT I DO APPRECIATE THE COMMENT
THAT NOT HAVING A MEETING LIKE
THIS DOES NOT PREVENT
COMMUNICATION BETWEEN
INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS OF COUNCIL
AND INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS OF THE
DENHA I APPRECIATE THAT AS A
PATTERN MOVING FORWARD AND
PEOPLE NEED TO SPEAK UP ABOUT A
PATTERN OF COMMUNICATION THAT
IS OUTSIDE OF PUBLIC VIEW TO
THE EXTENT THAT CANCELING THIS
MEETING IS CONSISTENT WITH AN
ONGOING PATTERN OF REDUCING
PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT, REDUCING
OPPORTUNITIES FOR PUBLIC
MEETINGS AND CONVERT THESE
KINDS OF CONVERSATIONS IN
PUBLIC VIEW, I PLAN TO OPPOSE
THAT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBERS, COUNCIL MEMBER AMAWI
AND I ARE BOTH LIAISON&apos;S ON THE
DDA TO THE DENHA AND I FOR ONE
HAVE NOT MISSED MEETINGS.
MY APOLOGIES IF I HAVE NOT
REPORTED OUT THE WORK BUT THE
DAY HAS BEEN ESSENTIAL TO PRE
ENTITLEMENT TO A NUMBER
PROJECTS WHEN IT COMES TO
AFFORDABLE HOUSING GOALS LIKE
IMPROVEMENT LOANS AT LEAST
WILLIAM KERBEL STREETDANCE
STATE THAT IS AN ESSENTIAL
PARTNER.
THERE&apos;S NO SECRET TO WHAT THEY
DO.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S COVERED BY PRESS.
THE DDA MEETINGS ARE PUBLIC.
WE HAVE WE DO HAVE FOLKS WHO
COME IN AND GIVE PUBLIC
COMMENTS.
I FOR ONE WELCOME MR DE HONEY&apos;S
LEADERSHIP ON THIS AND IF THIS
AND I I TRUST THAT MR TONY WILL
BRING WHATEVER INFORMATION THAT
WOULD HAVE BEEN PRESENTED TO US
AS A WHOLE TO US DIRECTLY
WITHOUT HAVING TO ATTEND YET
ANOTHER MEETING.
SO I THINK IF I&apos;M UNDERSTANDING
THIS PERHAPS MR WATSON CAN
EXPLAIN TO US WHAT KIND
OF EFFICIENCIES HE&apos;S HOPING TO
ACHIEVE IN CANCELING THIS
MEETING.
THE WELL THANKS MR MAYOR.
I WONDER IF I SHOULD LET MR
WATSON SPEAK FIRST.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN IT&apos;S UP TO YOU
OF COURSE BUT I SAW HIS HAND GO
UP EARLIER.
&gt;&gt; OH WELL I MEAN I&apos;LL JUST
I&apos;LL JUST SUM UP AND SAY THAT
YOU KNOW, COMPARING THIS
PROCESS TO MAKING THIS PROCESS
ANALOGOUS WITH OUR BUDGET
PROCESS IS EVEN MORE OF A RED
FLAG BECAUSE I AND I KNOW A LOT
OF RESIDENTS FELT THAT WE HAD
THE LEAST TRANSPARENT LEAST
AFFORDING OF PUBLIC OPPORTUNITY
TO QUESTION OUR SPENDING
DECISIONS BUDGET PROCESS THAT
WE&apos;VE SEEN IN YEARS TO FOCUS.
THIS IS NOT ABOUT THE GENERALLY
THIS JOINT WORKING SESSION IS
REQUIRED BY THE PARKING
AGREEMENT.
THIS IS ABOUT PARKING AND WE
HAVE BEFORE US TONIGHT THE
REMOVAL OF PARKING STANDARDS
WHERE THERE WILL BE ZERO
REQUIREMENTS FOR PARKING AND
NEW CONSTRUCTION.
NOW SURELY THERE&apos;S ALMOST A
MILLION SQUARE FOOT
OF DEVELOPABLE SPACE IN THE D1
D2 DISTRICT AND IF NONE OF THAT
HAS PARKING BASED ON WHAT&apos;S
COMING UP ON OUR AGENDA,
PERHAPS IT&apos;S IMPORTANT THAT WE
HAVE A CONVERSATION WITH THE
DDA ABOUT THE VALUE AND THE
REPURPOSING OF OUR DOWNTOWN
PARKING STRUCTURES PERHAPS AND
WHAT THEIR FUNCTION WILL BE
MOVING FORWARD AS BUILDINGS ARE
NOT REQUIRED TO HAVE PARKING IN
DOWNTOWN THE TRADE OFF THE
PARKING VERSUS RESIDENTIAL
CONSTRUCTION AND SO ON AND SO
ON.
&gt;&gt; AND I YOU KNOW, I&apos;M SERVING
UNTIL ONE OF WHENEVER OUR LAST
DAYS HERE AND SO I&apos;M SURE THAT
MY CONSTITUENTS WOULD FEEL THAT
MY OPINION IS WELCOME IN
OCTOBER OR THE LAST MEETING
OF NOVEMBER.
AND SO AGAIN, I&apos;M NOT GOING TO
SUPPORT THIS.
IT&apos;S REQUIRED BY OUR PARKING
AGREEMENT AND THERE&apos;S NO REASON
TO WAIVE THAT REQUIREMENT.
NO REASON WHATSOEVER.
AND I CAN ASSURE YOU THAT THE
PERSON WHO&apos;S GOING TO SIT IN MY
CHAIR DOESN&apos;T HAVE THE OPINION
OF THE DOZENS OF DOWNTOWN
BUSINESS OWNERS IN WARD ONE
THAT TALK TO ME ALL THE TIME
THAT ASK ME TO TAKE PARKING
ISSUES TO THE DDA AT THIS
SESSION, COUNTERPROGRAM.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
UM, I JUST UM SINCE
CONSPIRACIES HAVE BEEN THROWN
OUT AGAIN IN THE FACE OF JUST
YOU KNOW, SIMPLE DISAGREEMENT,
I WAS WONDERING IF MR TONY
COULD SPEAK TO JUST LOCAL
ISSUES THAT WE SPOKE OF IN
TERMS OF THE CHALLENGES
OF GETTING THESE TWO GROUPS
TOGETHER
.
IT&apos;S INDICATED WE HAD STOPPED
HAVING WORK STUDY OR WORK
SESSIONS THIS YEAR THIS
PARTICULAR ITEM REFERS TO
SIMPLY CANCELING THE MEETING
THIS YEAR NOT IN PERPETUITY,
NOT NEXT YEAR.
PART OF THE TIMING OF THE DDA
IS GOING TO BE INVOLVED IN
GOING THROUGH A NUMBER
OF STUDIES LOOKING AT DOWNTOWN
PARKING.
WE WON&apos;T BE DOING THAT IN
CALENDAR YEAR TWENTY TWENTY TWO
WE WILL WE WON&apos;T BE AT A POINT
TO EVEN KNOW WHAT WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT UNTIL CALENDAR YEAR
TWENTY THREE.
SO IT DIDN&apos;T SEEM LIKE JUST
THICKLY OR EFFICIENTLY
APPROPRIATE TO HAVE A MEETING
WHEN WE&apos;RE NOT AT WE&apos;RE NOT AT
THE POINT OF ACTUALLY DEALING
WITH THE PARKING ISSUE.
IT&apos;S SOMETHING THAT&apos;S BEEN
DISCUSSED WITHIN THE DDA BOARD
AS INDICATED MR WATSON IS I&apos;VE
BEEN GETTING SETTLED INTO THE
NEW ROLE SETTLED INTO THE
COMMUNITY AND IT&apos;S TAKING A BIT
OF TIME FOR US TO GEAR UP TO BE
ABLE TO LOOK AT THOSE ISSUES,
THE COMMITMENT AROUND
TRANSPARENCY AS NOT BEING
IMPACTED AT ALL.
AS I INDICATED, OUR MEETINGS
ARE PUBLIC AND WHEN WE GET MORE
SUBSTANCE AROUND PARKING
ISSUES, CERTAINLY WE INTEND TO
ENGAGE WITH CITY COUNCIL
MEMBERS AT THE TIME THAT WE
WERE MAKING A DECISION AT THAT
POINT IN TIME WE WERE STILL IN
THE THROES OF TRYING TO MANAGE
THROUGH COVID AND TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW I HAVE THE DDA
BOARD IN HERE WITH YOU ALL ALL
AT THE SAME TIME DID NOT SEEM
TO BE A WORKABLE SCENARIO AT
THAT POINT.
&gt;&gt; SO WE MADE THE
RECOMMENDATION TO DO WHAT&apos;S IN
FRONT OF YOU TONIGHT FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER I&apos;M
UH I APPRECIATE PEOPLE BEING AS
HONEST AS I CAN MOST OFTEN GET
.
UM, IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S VERY UM FOR
ME AT LEAST UM I HEARD THE
MAYOR SAY EFFECTIVELY WAS THESE
MEETINGS WERE POINTLESS AND
JUST THIS YEAR BUT ALL YEAR AND
THEN I HEARD SOMEONE SAY WELL
THERE&apos;S GOING TO BE TURNOVER SO
WHAT&apos;S THE POINT?
I MEAN THERE IS ALWAYS BEEN
TURNOVER AND WE STILL HAD THIS
UM THERE USED TO BE ELECTIONS
EVERY YEAR OR SO USED TO BE
TURNED OVER ANNUALLY.
UM, THE FACT THAT WE&apos;RE NOT
MEETING BECAUSE THERE&apos;S STUDIES
UNDERWAY THERE&apos;S ALWAYS STUDIES
UNDERWAY.
THIS IS A TOUCH POINT.
THIS IS A SERIOUS TOUCHPOINT
ONCE A YEAR.
YOU KNOW WE ARE THE POLICY
SETTERS, THE COUNCIL, THE BOARD
OF DIRECTORS, NOT THE CITY
ADMINISTRATOR.
I&apos;M GLAD THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR
HAS A SEAT AND HAS A GREAT
WORKING RELATIONSHIP BUT IT&apos;S
POLICY SETTERS.
WE ARE THE ONES THAT SET POLICY
.
I&apos;M JUST FLABBERGASTED ABOUT
THE THE EASE THAT PEOPLE HAVE
TO ADJUDICATE THE
RESPONSIBILITIES SO YEAH, I I
KNOW WHERE THIS IS GOING BUT UH
I&apos;M HIGHLY DISAPPOINTED BUT
THEN ENLIGHTENED BY THE
CONVERSATION BECAUSE THIS
DOESN&apos;T HAVE ANYTHING TO DO
WITH A LOT OF THINGS.
IT HAS A LOT TO DO WITH
SOMETHING.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;LL LEAVE IT AT THAT
COUNCIL.
EVERSOLE I DON&apos;T BELIEVE ANYONE
ABDICATING FROM THEIR DUTIES SO
UM I GUESS MR HONEY CAN YOU
REITERATE AGAIN UM HOW THE
INFORMATION WILL BE RECEIVED BY
COUNCIL REGARDLESS HOW OLD HOW
THIS INFORMATION WILL STILL BE
RECEIVED BY COUNCIL EVEN AS THE
SHOULD THIS MEETING BE CANCELED
?
&gt;&gt; THE RELEVANCE OF CANCELING
THIS PARTICULAR MEETING ALSO
HAS TO DO WITH THE TIME THAT IT
WAS SET TO OCCUR.
WE WILL NOT BE IN A POSITION TO
ADDRESS THE PARKING ISSUE AT
THAT POINT IN TIME.
WE WON&apos;T BE ABLE TO DO THAT
UNTIL CALENDAR YEAR TWENTY
THREE.
SO WHEN WE LOOK AT THE
SUBSTANCE OF WHAT THE MEETING
WOULD BE WHEN WE LOOKED AT THE
LOGISTICAL ISSUES AROUND THE
COVID CONSIDERATIONS AT THE
TIME THAT WE MADE THE
RECOMMENDATION IT SEEMED LIKE
NOT HAVING A MEETING FOR THIS
YEAR ONLY MADE SENSE.
THE DDA BUSINESS IS ALL DONE IN
THE OPEN.
NOTHING IS CHANGED IN THAT
REGARD.
THERE ARE PUBLIC COMMENTS AT
THOSE MEETINGS.
MINUTES ARE PUT OUT AND WHEN WE
HAVE SOMETHING OF SUBSTANCE I
WILL BE REPORT TO COUNCIL IF
YOU KNOW WE WORK AT THE
PLEASURE OF THE BODY SO WE&apos;LL
DO AS DIRECTED BUT WE WOULDN&apos;T
BE PREPARED TO HAVE THE PARKING
DISCUSSION AT THE NORMAL TIME
THAT YOU WOULD BE DOING THE
ANNUAL MEETING.
I APPRECIATE THAT AND THEN I&apos;LL
SEE IF I CAN KNOW THAT
SUBLETTER THIS REQUEST IS
COMING AS A JOINT VIA A LETTER
THAT&apos;S IN OUR COUNCIL PACKET ON
BEHALF OF THE CITY AND THE DAY
FROM MR DE AND FROM MR WATSON.
THIS WAS NOT A REQUEST FROM
CITY COUNCIL MEMBERS FURTHER
DISCUSSION ROLL-CALL VOTE
PLEASE START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS
CALAMA BREAKS NO
ELSEWHERE ALLOWING NO COUNCILOR
HAYNER NO COUNCILOR DID YES.
CUSTOMER GRISWOLD YES.
COUNCILOR MURSAU YES THAT&apos;S
RIGHT YES HOUSEMOTHER DENHA YES
MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
ELSMERE ER YES THAT&apos;S AND ALSO
NOW MOTION CARRIES WE NOW COME
TO A SET OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND COMMUNITY ABOUT THE
SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING.
FOLKS NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP
IN ADVANCE BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST
RELATE TO THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT
MATTER OF THE PUBLIC HEARING
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
ITEM ON THE AGENDA SPEAKERS
OF PUBLIC HEARINGS WHETHER IN
HOUSE OR ON LINE HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO IN BOTH INSTANCES PLEASE PAY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME
ONLINE.
OUR CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED IN
THE ROOM THE CLERK ON THE DAIS
WILL NOTIFY YOU OF SAME IN EACH
CASE WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
EXPIRED.
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR PUBLIC
HEARING NUMBER ONE AUDIENCE
AMEND SECTIONS FIVE ONE SIX
THREE G FIVE TWO ZERO ONE ZERO
ONE FIVE THREE DEAR 0.01
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY OF ANN
ARBOR.
MARIJUANA LICENSES TREES IN THE
RIGHT OF WAY LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATIONS.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING SO ONLINE I WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING AND ONE FOUR SEVEN STAR
SIX ON MUTE YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD
.
&gt;&gt; HELLO MY NAME IS JEFF
GREENFIELD 213 MADISON BEFORE I
WISH I COULD SPEAK WITH YOU IN
PERSON TONIGHT.
FAMILY OBLIGATIONS PREVENT THAT
BUT I&apos;M VERY CONCERNED ABOUT
THE PROPOSED TO REMOVE
RESTRICTIONS ON MARIJUANA A LOT
AT THE EXPENSE OF THE
NEIGHBORING COMMUNITY.
THE MOST IMPORTANT REASON THAT
THIS ORDINANCE NEEDS TO BE
VOTED DOWN THAT IT MARKED TO
CHANGE THE LAND USE POLICIES
THAT GREATLY INCREASE THE SCOPE
AND THE MAGNITUDE OF THE
ORIGINAL PERMIT GRANTED WITHOUT
THE BOY TO THE NEIGHBORING
RESIDENTS POINT THAT THE
AMENDMENT BUT THE DISPENSARY
NEIGHBORS ALL OF THEM ONLY WENT
THROUGH THE MEDICAL MARIJUANA
PERMIT PROCESS VULNERABILITY
FOR THE NEIGHBORING AREAS FOR
ANY OBJECTION TO THIS FACILITY
WITH THROUGH THE SPECIAL
EXEMPTION NEWSPAPER OBJECTIONS
WERE LIMITED TO MAKING A CASE
AGAINST ONE AND ONLY ONE
PHARMACY BEING ALLOWED TO MOVE
IN TO A LOT MORE.
THAT AMENDMENT WOULD OPEN THE
DOOR FOR MULTIPLE RECREATION
FACILITIES WITH THE LIKELY
SCENARIO IS THAT A RECREATIONAL
DISPENSARY AND A CONSUMABLE
FACILITY BEING ON THE SITE IS A
VERY DIFFERENT REALITY FROM THE
INTENT OF THE ORIGINAL PERMIT
OF ONE PHARMACY AND FURTHER
RATE THE IMPORTANCE OF THIS
POINT.
IT SHOULD BE NOTED THAT SOME
OF THESE SITES ARE IMMEDIATELY
ADJACENT TO OR LESS THAN A
HUNDRED FEET AWAY FROM
RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
THAT&apos;S WHERE WHAT ARE IN OUR
VALUE TO STABILIZE OR TO KEEP
RECREATIONAL SALE OUT OF THE
LOCAL COMMUNITY THAT DO NOT
WANT THEM AND TO PROTECT
CHILDREN WITH FOOT BARRIER
AROUND SCHOOL OTHER THAN OUR
LIKE THESE VALUES AND THEIR
POLICIES TO PROTECT THE
INDIVIDUAL NEIGHBORHOODS AND
PROTECT CHILDREN IN THEIR OWN
BACKYARD.
AND THIS AMENDMENT FIFTH
AMENDMENT TRULY IS ABOUT
CREATING BETTER ALIGNMENT
BETWEEN AN UPPER AND A POLICY
THE RIGHT WAY.
&gt;&gt; ALSO PLEASE REMEMBER THAT
MARIJUANA BUSINESSES IMPACTED
PROPERTY OWNERS DID NOT NEED
THIS CHANGE FOR SURE.
THEY WOULD LIKE TO CHANGE WHAT
BUSINESS WOULDN&apos;T LIKE THIS
RESTRICTION SETS OF THESE
RESTRICTIONS WHEN THEY START
THESE ENDEAVORS IT IS ONLY THE
LOCAL RESIDENTS ARE LOSING
PROTECTION IN THE IN ADDITION,
THE PROPOSED CHANGE MARKS A
LARGE CHANGE FROM YEAR
SPREADING OUT THE MARIJUANA
FACILITY FOR SUCH A LARGE
SHIFT.
WHERE WAS THE CITYWIDE FEEDBACK
WHERE WAS THE CITY SEEKING THE
INPUT OF THE NEIGHBORING
RESIDENTS TO THESE FACILITY?
&gt;&gt; IT JUST DOES NOT SHOW THAT
THIS IS BEING RECOGNIZED OR
TREATED AS SUCH A TRAVESTY.
&gt;&gt; IF YOU STILL ARE GOING TO
VOTE FOR THIS AMENDMENT I
REQUEST ONE SMALL FAVOR.
THIRTY MINUTES.
WOULD YOU PLEASE ANNOUNCE HOW
FAR YOU LIVE FROM THE MARIJUANA
THIS APPLICATION OF ONE BLOCK
TO BLOCK MORE THAN TWO BLOCKS
AWAY SUFFICIENT CORRESPONDS
ROUGHLY TO SIX HUNDRED THOUSAND
OVER A THOUSAND.
ADDITIONALLY, WHAT DID YOU MAKE
SPEAK WITH RESIDENTS LIVE
WITHIN 600 FEET OF THE SITE?
FOR THE RECORD MY FAMILY LIVES
WITHIN SIX FEET OF ONE BESIDE
POLICE FROM THE THANK YOU FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU MAYOR.
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NO IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING
IS CLOSED PUBLICLY NO TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTIONS FIVE
ONE SIX ONE OUT A FIVE THAT ONE
SIX TWO EIGHT FIVE THAT ONE SIX
TO THE FIVE FIVE ONE SIX THREE
DUTCHIE FIVE ONE SIX THREE P
FIVE ONE SIX FOUR B FIVE THAT
ONE SIX SIX TO C FIVE SIXTEEN
SIX G TO REPEAL AND REPLACE
SECTIONS FIVE EIGHT ONE NINE.
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE STATE ANN
ARBOR.
IS THERE ANYONE WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING
PLEASE.
&gt;&gt; IT IS JUST THERE&apos;S NO ONE
HERE IS ALWAYS LIKE OH I
THOUGHT THERE WOULD BE A LOT
OF PEOPLE THAT ARE EITHER
ELIMINATED PARKING MINIMUMS AND
I&apos;M EXCITED THAT IT&apos;S SOMETHING
WE WERE DISCUSSING TODAY.
CARS ARE A WASTEFUL AND
DANGEROUS TRANSIT OPTION TO
POLLUTE OUR CITY, OUR LUNGS AND
OUR ENVIRONMENT.
THEY REQUIRE COSTLY AND
DESOLATE LAND USES JUST TO
COPE WITH TRAFFIC AND OF COURSE
PARKING BUT ELIMINATING PARKING
MINIMUMS ISN&apos;T JUST ABOUT THAT.
IT&apos;S ABOUT REDUCING THE COST
OF DEVELOPMENT, MAKING HOUSES
MORE AFFORDABLE.
IT&apos;S ABOUT REDUCING SPRAWL,
MAKING OUR CITY MORE LIVABLE
FOR EVERYONE AND IT&apos;S ABOUT
MAKING IT MORE POSSIBLE AND
BENEFICIAL TO LIVE LIFE WITH OR
WITHOUT A CAR.
THE CURRENT MINIMUM FORCED
DEVELOPERS TO BUILD AS IF MOST
PEOPLE USING THE SPACE ARE
DRIVING A CAR.
THIS DRIVES UP THE PRICE
OF DEVELOPMENT MAKING THINGS
LESS AFFORDABLE.
IT ALSO MAKES IT HARDER FOR
PEOPLE NOT IN A CAR TO USE A
DEVELOPMENT WHETHER IT BE A
STORE OR A HOUSING COMPLEX.
THIS ENCOURAGES OR
REALISTICALLY REQUIRES CAR
OWNERSHIP AND USE JUST TO
FUNCTION IN SOCIETY.
THIS IS AN EXTREMELY ON
ENVIRONMENTAL AND ON EQUITABLE
USE.
NOT EVERYONE CAN DRIVE A CAR.
NO ONE CAN BUY A CAR AND
FRANKLY NOT EVERYONE WANTS A
CAR.
WE SHOULD ALLOW DEVELOPERS TO
BUILD OPTIONS FOR EVERYONE FOR
ANYONE WHO WOULD SAY THIS
POSITION IS PRO DEVELOPER OR
PRO BIG BUSINESS THROUGH ITS
DEREGULATION, I&apos;D SAY FLIP THE
COIN AND ASK YOURSELF HOW
PARKING MINIMUMS BENEFIT LARGE
CORPORATIONS REQUIRED PARKING
INCREASES THE DISTANCE BETWEEN
BUILDINGS AND PEOPLE AND BY
DOING SO REQUIRES CAR USE
BENEFITING AUTO MANUFACTURERS
AND OIL COMPANIES.
IT REQUIRES MORE MONEY TO BE
SPENT ON DEVELOPMENT DRIVING UP
PRICES FOR EVERYDAY PEOPLE AND
IT PREVENTS SMALLER DEVELOPERS
AND SHOP OWNERS FROM GETTING IN
ON THE GAME MAKING IT MOST
VIABLE, MAKING THE MOST VIABLE
BUSINESSES LARGE CHAINS WITH
MONEY TO SPEND, ELIMINATING
HAGY MINIMUMS IS GOOD FOR LOCAL
BUSINESS, GREAT FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT, IMPROVES
LIVABILITY AND INCREASES EQUITY
IN A TIME OF HOUSING AND
ENVIRONMENTAL CRISES.
THIS IS AN OBVIOUS THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
HI MY NAME IS ADAM DISCOVERED
IN THE
FORESWORE THE PREVIOUS
CALLER ID WITH ECHO A LOT
OF THAT.
IT WAS A GREAT COMMENT AND I&apos;M
CALLING TO SUPPORT THIS
AMENDMENT OF THE PARKING
STANDARDS AND THE ELIMINATION
OF EXPENSIVE PARKING MANDATES
FROM OUR DEVELOPMENT CODE AS TO
OUR AGENCY OUR CLIMATE GOALS
THAT CALL FOR REDUCING VEHICLE
MILES TRAVELED AS WE MOVE
TOGETHER TOWARD VISION ZERO AND
AS WE EXPAND PUBLIC TRANSIT
SERVICE WITH VERY RECENTLY
PASSED A PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION
MILLAGE WE HAVE LESS AND LESS
NEED FOR CAR PARKING IN THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
DESPITE THIS WE&apos;VE BEEN
CONTINUING TO REQUIRE
DEVELOPERS TO BUILD PARKING
EVEN IF THEY DO NOT HAVE A NEED
FOR IT IN THEIR PROJECTS.
I RECENTLY WATCHED A ZONING
BOARD MEETING WHERE AN
APPLICANT WANTED TO BUILD A BAR
AND CAFE IN AN EXTREMELY
WALKABLE, LIKABLE AREA AND WAS
ASKING FOR A VARIANCE TO BUILD
IT WITH FEWER PARKING SPACES.
FORTUNATELY ZONING BOARD
APPEALS APPROVED THE VARIANCE
BUT THIS ADDED EXTRA STEPS AND
EXPENSE TO BUILDING EXACTLY THE
KIND OF WALKABLE NEIGHBORHOOD
AMENITY THAT WE WANT TO HAVE.
I&apos;D LOVE TO SEE FAST CAR TRAVEL
IN ANN ARBOR.
THE FIRST STEP TOWARD THAT IS
TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT OF SPACE
TO STORE THEM.
THIS STORAGE SPACE PUSHES
BUILDINGS FARTHER APART, MAKING
WALKING BIKING DISTANCES LONGER
AND ENCOURAGING PEOPLE TO DRIVE
CARS.
PLEASE HAS THESE CHANGES
TONIGHT.
FURTHERMORE, I HOPE WE CAN
CONSIDER ADDITIONAL CHANGES IN
THE FUTURE SUCH AS UNBUNDLING
THE COST OF PARKING FROM
PEOPLE&apos;S RENT SO THAT CAR FREE
RESIDENTS CAN SAVE MONEY BY NOT
SUBSIDIZING PARKING FOR THEIR
NEIGHBORS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
I RAHMAN, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; YES HELLO.
HI MY NAME IS JUSTIN AT THE
UNIVERSITY.
YOU TALK ABOUT THE NAME PARTY
MEMBERS WANT A LITTLE STORY
PERSONALLY ABOUT MYSELF.
SO LAST I WAS IN THIS APARTMENT
BUILDING THAT WAS NONCONFORMING
WHICH MEANS THAT BASICALLY IT
DOESN&apos;T IT DOESN&apos;T YOU KNOW,
CONFORM TO THE ZONING THAT THAT
WAS PLACED ON IT AFTER WAS
CONSTRUCTED AND THE MAIN THERE
IS A MYRIAD OF REASONS WHY I
WAS NOT CONFORMING.
ONE OF THOSE REASONS WAS THAT
IT HAD PARKING AND NOT ENOUGH
PARKING FOR THE AMOUNT
OF PARKING SPOTS THAT WAS BUILT
NOW ARE BUILT WITH IT IN 1961
AND NOT TO MENTION THE PARKING
SPOTS THAT THEY DIDN&apos;T HAVE TO
BUILD REQUIRE THEM TO GET RID
OF THE ENTIRE GREEN SPACE IN
THE BACK.
SO IT JUST COVERED NASHVILLE
AND YOU THINK THIS IS PART
OF BUILDING?
I DIDN&apos;T NEED TO DRIVE ANYWHERE
I COULD REGISTER FOR BICYCLE
RIDE TO KROGER, TRADER JOE&apos;S
WHOLE FOODS.
I CAN WALK TO CLASS.
I HAVE MY BIKES.
I GO WHEREVER I WANT IN THE
CITY BASICALLY AND I CAN RIDE
THE BUS.
I WANTED TO BASICALLY I DIDN&apos;T
NEED A CAR BUT I HAD A PARKING
SPOT SO I DID ACTUALLY BRING A
CAR WITH ME AND I&apos;M LIVING IN
EUTAW PLAZA WHICH IS PROBABLY
THE BIGGEST APARTMENT BUILDING
IN AN ENTIRE CITY THAT HAS ZERO
PARKING SPOTS FOR RESIDENTS IT
HAS ABOUT THREE TO FOUR PARKING
SPOTS AT THE BASE FOR THE
BUILDING SUPERINTENDENT AND FOR
VISITORS AND IT&apos;S FINE DOESN&apos;T
YOU LIVE IN THAT BUILDING
WITHOUT PARKING BECAUSE THEY
DON&apos;T NEED IT.
THEY CAN RIDE THE BUS.
THEY CAN WALK, THEY CAN RIDE
THEIR BIKES.
THERE&apos;S SO MANY DIFFERENT WAYS
TO GET AROUND.
WE DON&apos;T REQUIRE A CAR AND
ABOUT PARKING IN THE BECAUSE
THE SPEAKERS ARE WE KIND
OF TALKED ABOUT THIS BUT
PARKING IS EXPENSIVE.
IT ADDS A LOT OF INBOUND CAR.
BUT IF YOU SEE THAT THE NEW
BUILDING ON SOUTH THAT&apos;S GOING
UP THEY ACTUALLY TO GO DOWN TO
STORIES TO BUILD PARKING.
IT&apos;S A LOT OF PARKING THEY&apos;RE
DOING THERE.
WE SHOULD HAVE TO DO THAT.
WE WE SHOULD WE SHOULD IN FACT
INCENTIVIZE NOT DOING THAT OR
YOU KNOW, USE A STICK METHODS
THAT HAVE A CHARACTER JUST
DON&apos;T DO IT.
WE KNOW THAT PARKING IS BAD.
IT USES A LOT OF CONCRETE.
IT HURTS THE ENVIRONMENT IN
TRANSIT CAR DEPENDENCY BECAUSE
IT FORCES DEVELOPMENT TO BE FAR
APART.
IT MAKES SMALLER DEVELOPMENTS
IMPOSSIBLE TO PENCIL IF YOU SEE
THE THERE&apos;S A NEW APARTMENT
BUILDING GOING UP ON NINE A.M.
ON MAIN STREET AND THEY&apos;RE
BUILDING SIX SIX BEDROOM UNITS.
WHY?
BECAUSE THIS BUILDING IS IN OUR
FORCES ZONING WHICH MEANS THAT
THEY HAVE TO PROVIDE ONE POINT
FIVE PARKIS FOR EACH FOR EACH
FOR EACH UNIT.
AND SO THIS DEVELOPER HAS TO
PROVIDE THE THIRTY SIX BEDROOMS
AND SO IF THEY WERE GOING TO
MAKE THEM ONE TWO BEDROOMS WE&apos;D
HAVE TO PROVIDE LEGIONS
OF PARKING FOR THIS DEVELOPMENT
AND A LITTLE BIT IT WOULD HAVE
BEEN IMPOSSIBLE TO BUILD THIS
WHERE IT IS CURRENTLY WHEN THE
MOST MAJOR UNITS IN THIS CASE
ARE INSTEAD OF ENACTING SARMIN
THEY&apos;RE ABLE TO ACTUALLY BUILD
A REGULAR OPERATING SECONDS.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NORMAL SO LIKE IT JUST
DOESN&apos;T MAKE SENSE TO ME TO
FORCE BUILDINGS TO BUILD
PARKING WHEN WHEN IT&apos;S CLEARED.
THE MARKET IS NOT DEMANDING
PARKING I DON&apos;T THINK PLANNERS
CAN DO TO MAGICALLY DETERMINE
HOW MUCH PARKING IS NEEDED TO A
CERTAIN SPOT.
SO I THINK THAT WE SHOULD
STRIKE THIS FROM THE CODE AND
ALLOW PARKING TO WORK NATURALLY
LIKE IT IT BEFORE THE INDUCTION
OF PARKING MANDATES WILL FIND
DIDN&apos;T BURN DOWN AND WE&apos;RE
BURNING IT DOWN WITH PARKING.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
ALEX LOWE DO YOU HAVE
A COMMENT?
HI THIS IS ALEX LOWE CALLING IN
FROM FORT WORTH THREE.
I JUST WANT TO ECHO THE
PREVIOUS CALLERS AND SUPPORTING
THAT AND IF WE CAN GO A STEP
FURTHER AND PUT IN BOTH PARKING
MAXIMUMS AND GET TO WORK AS A
CITY TO GET RID OF FREE PARKING
BECAUSE FREE PARKING ISN&apos;T
FREE, IT&apos;S JUST SUBSIDIZED BY
EVERYONE.
&gt;&gt; AND WHY WHY SHOULD WE BE
SUBSIDIZING PARKING THAT WE&apos;RE
NOT USING?
WE HAVE THESE ENORMOUS SWATHS
OF PARKING AT EACH OF THE BIG
BUCKS SUPERMARKETS AND STUFF
THAT GO MOSTLY UNUSED EVEN
DURING VERY BUSY DAYS.
&gt;&gt; SO I REALLY WOULD LIKE TO
SEE THAT TAKEN OUT OF THE COST
OF GROCERIES AND PAID FOR
SEPARATELY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
SANDRA MISSAL, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; YES.
FIRST TIME CALLING IN.
SO CAN YOU HEAR ME?
&gt;&gt; YES WE CAN.
AWESOME.
OK, SO MY NAME IS SANDRA.
I&apos;M CALLING IN FOR WARD THREE
IN SUPPORT OF ELIMINATING THE
PARKING MINIMUMS.
IT&apos;S REALLY GREAT TO SEE THE
CITY GETTING RID OF THESE
OUTDATED LAWS.
PARKING MINIMUMS ARE
ESSENTIALLY CLIMATE ARSON.
THEY&apos;RE ENTRENCHING OUR CAR
DEPENDANCE WHICH IS RESPONSIBLE
FOR OVER 40 PERCENT OF THE CO2
EMISSIONS FROM THE
TRANSPORTATION TRANSPORTATION
SECTOR, PARKING MINIMUMS,
FORCES TO CREATE HUGE AMOUNTS
OF IMPERVIOUS SURFACE THAT IS
SELDOM USED IF YOU GUYS HAVE
EVER BEEN DOWN CARPENTER AND
SEEN KROGER, THE LOWE&apos;S, THE
ALL THE I MEAN ALL THESE STORES
THAT THESE GIANT SWATHS
OF PARKING THAT ISN&apos;T BEING
USED BY ANYONE, IT&apos;S JUST
SITTING THERE WASTING SPACE.
IT&apos;S ESTIMATED THERE ARE EIGHT
PARKING SPOTS FOR EVERY CAR IN
AMERICA.
THIS LAND COULD BE USED FOR
HOUSING OR PARKS OR WALKABLE
RETAIL DISTRICTS BUT INSTEAD
THEY&apos;RE MAKING HOUSING GOODS
AND SERVICES MORE EXPENSIVE
BECAUSE THE LAND IS BEING USED
SO INEFFICIENTLY.
SO HOPEFULLY THIS WILL BE A
GOOD FIRST STEP TOWARD THE CITY
BECOMING A CLIMATE LEADER AND
IMPROVING OUR COMMUNITIES BY
IMPROVING WALKABILITY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
NASHAT CATERWAUL DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT.
YEAH HI MY NAME&apos;S KIRPAL I AM A
HOMEOWNER DRIVER A CYCLIST AND
I LIVE IN BOARD FIVE AND FOUR
THAT I GREW UP IN BARTON HILLS
AND I&apos;VE BEEN LOOKING AT OR I
GUESS SINCE NINETEEN NINETY
SEVEN SO I WANTED TO SUPPORT
THE REPEAL OF PARKING MINIMUMS
AND URGE YOU ALL TO GO FURTHER
AND ENFORCE PARKING MAXIMUMS IN
PARTICULAR FOR SORT OF DOWNTOWN
ZONING DISTRICTS IN THE WAY
THAT I BELIEVE THE DC ONE
ZONING DISTRICT DOES SO WELL
THERE&apos;S NO REASON TO BE ADDING
SORT OF IMPLICIT SUBSIDIES FOR
DRIVING AND FOR CAR STORAGE AND
IF PEOPLE WANT TO USE LAND FOR
THAT PURPOSE THEY SHOULD DO IT
THEMSELVES.
BUT WE SHOULDN&apos;T BE FORCING
PRIVATE LANDOWNERS TO USE LAND
FOR CERTAINLY THIS REASON AND
I&apos;M IN FAVOR OF REPEALING
PARKING MINIMAL PARKING
MINIMUMS IN OUR ZONING CODE FOR
ALL THE REASONS THAT A LOT
OF THE OTHER CALLERS HAVE PUT
IN.
ABDOOL MADE A GREAT POINT ABOUT
PREPONDERANCE OF SIX UNIT
APARTMENT BUILDINGS THAT WE
HAVE AND THAT&apos;S ONE OF THESE
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES EVEN IF
YOU KNOW YOU&apos;RE DESIRABLE GOAL
IS WE WANT PEOPLE TO BE ABLE TO
PARK TO GET AROUND, YOU KNOW,
PRODUCING SORT OF WEIRD USAGES
OF URBAN SPACE AND ARGUABLY
KNOW BAD USAGES, FIBER OPTICS.
AND SO THIS IS WHY I&apos;M IN FAVOR
PARK.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
AND AGAIN FIVE THREE FOUR
ACCOMACK
THIS IS TOM STOPPARD
CALLING FROM LOWERTOWN.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;D LIKE TO MENTION THAT I
BELIEVE THAT THIS IS TONIGHT SO
I WON&apos;T GO INTO THE DETAILS BUT
I&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO THANK YOU.
THIS WILL BE FINANCIALLY
BENEFIT TO ME AND MY SMALL
INVESTMENT GROUP IN ADDITION TO
THE LARGER LANDHOLDERS AND
INVESTMENT GROUPS THAT IS
FINANCIALLY BENEFIT BENEFICIAL
FOR.
SO AGAIN, THANK YOU.
I KNOW SOME OF THE OTHER PEOPLE
IN MY POSITION, ESPECIALLY THE
LARGER ONES TEND NOT TO THANK
YOU FOR YOUR LARGESSE AS THIS
COUNCIL PASSES TIME AND TIME
AGAIN.
THANKS ARE FINANCIALLY
BENEFICIAL TO THE DEVELOPMENT
CLASS
SO I WANT TO BE THE ONE
TO THANK YOU LIKE I DID.
&gt;&gt; I BELIEVE THE LAST MEETING
FOR A THIS CHANGE THAT&apos;S
BENEFICIAL TO I&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO
MENTION THAT I&apos;VE SAID THIS
BEFORE WHEN YOU CHANGE
ORDINANCES LIKE THIS THERE&apos;S A
WHOLE SPECTRUM OF POSSIBLE
OUTCOMES BUT WE TEND TO HEAR IS
A LOT OF CHEERLEADING FOR ONE
PART OF THE SPECTRUM OF THE
OUTCOME POSSIBLE OUTCOMES WE
DON&apos;T NECESSARILY ACHIEVE THAT
PART OF THE SPECTRUM
OF OUTCOMES.
SOMETIMES WE&apos;RE MORE LIKELY TO
ACHIEVE ANOTHER PART OF A
SPECTRUM OF OUTCOMES BUT WE&apos;RE
ONLY HERE CHEERLEADING FOR THE
BEST POSSIBLE CASE SCENARIOS.
I THINK ONE OF THE BENEFITS
OF HAVING CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS
NOW IS THAT THE PUBLIC CAN HEAR
PROS AND CONS DISCUSS AND WAIT
AT THE TABLE OF THE OF OTHER
POSSIBILITIES THAT DID COME UP
SUCH CHANGES.
UNFORTUNATELY WE HAVE BEEN
REDUCING PUBLIC INPUT AT
MULTIPLE LEVELS SO WE&apos;RE GOING
TO HAVE LESS OR LESS OF THESE
PROS AND CONS AS WE GO ON AND
GO FORWARD ESPECIALLY WITH A
NEW COUNCIL.
WE EXPECT TO SEE CHANGES LIKE
THE SITE PLAN THRESHOLD WHERE
THEN WE SUBSEQUENT TO THAT MASS
REZONE 70 PARCELS.
NOW WE&apos;RE CONTEMPLATING MASS
REZONING OVER TWO HUNDRED
PARCELS AND AT THE SAME PLAN
THRESHOLD CHANGE THAT WILL
NEVER COME TO COUNCILOR.
THAT&apos;S JUST ONE WAY WE&apos;VE
REDUCED A PUBLIC HEARING,
REDUCED PUBLIC AWARENESS AND I
KNOW THAT SOME OTHER THINGS
THAT HAVE BEEN MENTIONED AS
PROS AND CONS AND I AGREE THAT
THOSE ARE VALID PROS AND CONS
THAT WE SHOULD KEEP DISCUSSING
THOSE IN THE PUBLIC FORUM
THAT&apos;S THE APPROPRIATE PLACE
NOT JUST MAKE IT GO AWAY.
SO BACK TO THIS ONE IN
PARTICULAR.
&gt;&gt; THIRTY SECONDS.
I THINK THERE ARE A I THINK
THERE&apos;S A LOT OF CON THAT
HAVEN&apos;T BEEN MENTIONED AND I&apos;M
HOPING PEOPLE WILL BRING THOSE
UP AT TABLE.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE NOT AUTOMATICALLY
GOING TO GET WHAT EVERYBODY
THINKS WE&apos;RE GOING TO GET.
IT&apos;S EASY TO PICTURE A SEA
OF PARKENING AVAILABLE AND SAY
LET&apos;S GET RID OF THAT.
BUT WHEN YOU REALLY DRILL DOWN
ON THE DETAILS, THERE&apos;S OTHER
FACTORS THAT COME INTO PLAY AND
I HOPE TO HEAR A DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; BUT AGAIN, I THANK YOU FOR
ME AND MY INVESTMENT FINANCIAL
BENEFIT YOU&apos;RE GIVING US
TONIGHT.
THANK YOU
.
MICHEL HUGHES, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; HI.
SO YEAH, I&apos;M EXCITED ABOUT
REMOVING PARKING MINIMUMS THE
THE THINGS THAT I&apos;M EXCITED
ABOUT ABOUT ANN ARBOR ARE NOT
PART IT&apos;S YOU KNOW, I THINK A
LOT OF PEOPLE IN THE CITY LIKE
THE CULTURE HERE.
&gt;&gt; WE LIKE THE A FUNKY PLACE
LIKE THAT.
OUR FRIENDS ARE HERE.
WE LIKE THAT THERE ARE
ACTIVITIES AND THINGS TO DO AND
ALL OF THOSE THINGS ARE THINGS
THAT ARE HURT BY THE ADDITION
OF PARKING BECAUSE IT MAKES
GIVING FURTHER AWAY FROM EACH
OTHER AND YOU KNOW, WHEN THINGS
GET FURTHER AWAY FROM EACH
OTHER THAN OUR PEOPLE, OUR
FRIENDS ARE HARDER TO VISIT.
OUR LOVED ONES ARE HARDER TO
VISIT.
OUR RELATIVES ARE HARDER TO
IF YOU KNOW WE CAN LIVE CLOSER
VISIT.
TOGETHER, WE CAN WALK OVER OUR
IF YOU KNOW WE CAN LIVE CLOSER
HOUSE, WE CAN TAKE THE BUS RIDE
TOGETHER, WE CAN WALK OVER OUR
IF WE&apos;RE FURTHER AWAY FROM
HOUSE, WE CAN TAKE THE BUS RIDE
EVERYTHING THAT WE CARE ABOUT
IF WE&apos;RE FURTHER AWAY FROM
THAN THAT CAR BETTER WORK AND
EVERYTHING THAT WE CARE ABOUT
YOU WE CAN WE CAN LIVE IN THAT
THAN THAT CAR BETTER WORK AND
WAY IN ANY OF THE SUBURBS IN
YOU WE CAN WE CAN LIVE IN THAT
MICHIGAN WE CAN WE CAN GO JUST
WAY IN ANY OF THE SUBURBS IN
FROM OUR HOUSE TO OUR CAR TO A
MICHIGAN WE CAN WE CAN GO JUST
PARKING LOT AND THEN INTO
FROM OUR HOUSE TO OUR CAR TO A
ANOTHER BUILDING.
PARKING LOT AND THEN INTO
WE GET THAT ANYWHERE.
ANOTHER BUILDING.
BUT WE WE CHOSE TO LIVE IN ANN
WE GET THAT ANYWHERE.
ARBOR FOR A REASON AND MOST
BUT WE WE CHOSE TO LIVE IN ANN
OF THE REASONS WE LIKE
ARBOR FOR A REASON AND MOST
INTROVERTS ARE THINGS THAT WERE
OF THE REASONS WE LIKE
BUILT BEFORE PARKING MINIMUMS
INTROVERTS ARE THINGS THAT WERE
WERE CREATED .
BUILT BEFORE PARKING MINIMUMS
WE WE WANT TO LIVE IN A
WERE CREATED .
SUBURBAN WAY AND THAT&apos;S WHY WE
WE WE WANT TO LIVE IN A
LIVE IN ANN ARBOR.
SUBURBAN WAY AND THAT&apos;S WHY WE
THE DOWNTOWN NEIGHBORHOODS THAT
LIVE IN ANN ARBOR.
WE LOVE SO MUCH THAT WHEN YOU
THE DOWNTOWN NEIGHBORHOODS THAT
MEET THEM WE DECLARED THEM
WE LOVE SO MUCH THAT WHEN YOU
HISTORIC AND SAID THAT, YOU
MEET THEM WE DECLARED THEM
KNOW, THIS IS THIS IS THE WAY
HISTORIC AND SAID THAT, YOU
WE WANT THESE NEIGHBORHOODS TO
KNOW, THIS IS THIS IS THE WAY
BE FOREVER AND YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S
WE WANT THESE NEIGHBORHOODS TO
THE NEIGHBORHOODS THAT WE
BE FOREVER AND YOU KNOW, IT&apos;S
PROTECT THE PARKING MINIMUMS
THE NEIGHBORHOODS THAT WE
AND I DON&apos;T SEE A WHOLE LOT
PROTECT THE PARKING MINIMUMS
OF PEOPLE MOVING TO TRY TO MAKE
AND I DON&apos;T SEE A WHOLE LOT
SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOODS WITH
OF PEOPLE MOVING TO TRY TO MAKE
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES AND PARKING
SUBURBAN NEIGHBORHOODS WITH
AND YOU KNOW, GIANT BIG BOX
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES AND PARKING
STORES WITH PARKING LOTS.
AND YOU KNOW, GIANT BIG BOX
PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO MAKE THOSE
STORES WITH PARKING LOTS.
HISTORIC DISTRICTS BECAUSE
PEOPLE ARE TRYING TO MAKE THOSE
THEY&apos;RE NOT SOMETHING THAT
HISTORIC DISTRICTS BECAUSE
ANYONE&apos;S ACTUALLY INTERESTED IN
THEY&apos;RE NOT SOMETHING THAT
.
ANYONE&apos;S ACTUALLY INTERESTED IN
WE WANT A CITY THAT&apos;S FOR COOL
.
STUFF RIGHT NEXT TO US.
WE WANT A CITY THAT&apos;S FOR COOL
THAT&apos;S WHY WE LIVE HERE.
STUFF RIGHT NEXT TO US.
SO I AM EXCITED TO SEE THAT
THAT&apos;S WHY WE LIVE HERE.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO MAKE OUR LAWS
SO I AM EXCITED TO SEE THAT
REFLECT ON THE DOCUMENT AND
WE&apos;RE GOING TO MAKE OUR LAWS
THAT WE WANT THE CITY TO PUT
REFLECT ON THE DOCUMENT AND
THINGS THANKS.
THAT WE WANT THE CITY TO PUT
THANK YOU
.
CALLER WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING IN THREE TO SIX, DO YOU
HAVE A COMMENT?
STAR SIX GO AHEAD LIVE FROM
WORK THREE IN CALLING JUST
TOUCH ON IN A COUPLE OF THINGS
IN REGARDS TO THE TOPIC, I WANT
TO TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT
RESILIENCE.
SO WE&apos;VE HEARD A LOT OF THINGS
ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE
IMPACTS THAT AUTOMOBILES HAVE
ON CLIMATE CHANGE EXACERBATING
CLIMATE CHANGE, THE PRIMARY
CAUSE OF IT NOT JUST IN TERMS
OF DRIVING BUT IN TERMS
OF PARKING SURFACES CETERA AND
THE LACK OF HOUSING.
AND SO PEOPLE HAVE TOUCHED A
LOT OF ANOTHER ASPECT OF IT IS
RESILIENCE.
RIGHT.
SO THE LESS RELIANCE THAT WE
HAVE ON AUTOMOBILES IN OUR
COMMUNITY, THE MORE RESILIENT
WE ARE, PARTICULARLY AS STRONG
MATERIALS BECOME HARDER TO FIND
AS THE ENERGY TO RUN THESE
VEHICLES BECOMES HARDER TO GET
AND TO FACILITATE.
WE&apos;RE DOING A TRANSITION TO
RENEWABLES BUT THAT&apos;S A SLOW
TRANSITION AND EVEN WITH
RENEWABLES THERE&apos;S ISSUES WITH
BATTERIES AND WHATNOT.
IT&apos;S ABOUT RESILIENCE AS WELL
IN THE FACE OF CLIMATE CHANGE.
IT&apos;S ALSO ABOUT SOCIALIZATION
AND BEING ABLE TO BE CONNECTED
IN A COMMUNITY THAT YOU VALUE
VERY MUCH THE THINGS AT GROUND
LEVEL.
SO RESEARCH FOR EXAMPLE, SHOWS
THAT PEOPLE THAT WALK AND BIKE
ARE MORE FREQUENT OR MORE
FREQUENT CONTRIBUTORS TO SHOPS
AT STREET LEVEL.
&gt;&gt; THERE&apos;S ALSO MORE
OPPORTUNITY FOR COMMUNICATION
AND WHATNOT WITH JUST PEOPLE ON
THE STREET WHAT ARE CALLED
LOOSE CONNECTIONS RESEARCHERS
HAVE CALLED LOOSE CONNECTIONS.
THE PEOPLE THAT YOU RUN INTO
YOU NECESSARILY KNOW THEY MIGHT
BE ON THE STREET NEXT TO YOU
WAITING FOR A BUS OR LINE AT A
GROCERY STORE OR SOMETHING LIKE
THAT.
UNLESS I WANT TO CLOSE OUT WITH
PERSONAL ANECDOTES I GENERALLY
DON&apos;T TALK ABOUT MY FAMILY VERY
OFTEN IN THE POLITICAL SPHERE.
I THAT PRIVATE BUT I DO WANT TO
MENTION THAT THIS WEEKEND FOR
EXAMPLE, MY SON JUST TURNED TO
A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO AND I
TOOK THE BUS DOWNTOWN.
WE DID SOME GROCERY SHOPPING.
WE STOPPED FOR A SNACK ACTUALLY
AT A AT A RESTAURANT THAT IS
OWNED BY ONE OF OUR CREW
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND THEN MILLED
ABOUT AND HUNG OUT AND TALKED
WITH PEOPLE JUST BUMPING INTO
PEOPLE AROUND TOWN AND THEN
WENT AND TOOK THE BUS BACK
HOME.
THE REASON I&apos;M SHARING THAT
BECAUSE I WANT TO PROVIDE AN
EXAMPLE OF OF MORE THAN JUST
OH, I&apos;M AN INDIVIDUAL WHO&apos;S
LIVED WITHOUT A CAR AND I&apos;VE
TALKED ABOUT THIS ON THE
INTERNET FOR SO MANY YEARS
WITHOUT A CAR BUT NOW WITH A
FAMILY WITH A CHILD, YOU KNOW
THIS YOUNG CHILD AND I&apos;M ABLE
TO DO ALL OF THE THINGS
NECESSARY.
HIS SWIM CLASSES ON THE BUS
LINE THIRTY MUSEUM DOWNTOWN
THINGS OF THAT NATURE THERE&apos;S
SO MANY THINGS THAT ARE
ACCESSIBLE WITHOUT HAVING A CAR
THAT IT&apos;S NOT LIMITED, JUST
SORT OF THIS VISION FROM
INDIVIDUALS ON THEIR OWN.
IT&apos;S ABOUT FAMILIES AS WELL.
SO I JUST WANT TO SHARE THAT
WITH YOU.
AND ACROSS THE SPECTRUM THERE
ARE PEOPLE WHO VALUE A CAR THAT
IS NOT A SINGLE OCCUPANCY
VEHICLE UNFOCUSSED IN THE
SOCIETY.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I HOPE YOU SUPPORT THIS YOU
THANK YOU
CALLER WITH A PHONE
NUMBER AND AGAIN FOUR ZERO
THREE DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
CALLER FOUR ZERO
YES.
WE CAN OPEN.
THANKS.
THIS IS JOHN PIKE.
CARL WARD FIVE AND I JUST WELL
VERY BRIEFLY SAY THAT I SUPPORT
THE ELIMINATION OF PERFORMANCE
.
&gt;&gt; I I TRY TO DRIVE MY CAR AS
LITTLE AS POSSIBLE AND I I HAVE
BIKED TO WORK EVERY DAY
BASICALLY FOR AT LEAST 15 YEARS
NOW AND I AND I BIKE TO DO MAKE
THE MAJORITY OF MY GROCERY
SHOPPING.
&gt;&gt; I JUST I THINK WE REALLY
HAVE TO START PUSHING PEOPLE TO
CHANGING
AND AND AND ONE OF THE
WAYS TO TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT
OF AVAILABLE PARKING AND IF WE
CAN GET MORE HOUSING, YOU KNOW,
IN THE BARGAIN TO THEN SO MUCH
THE BETTER.
SO THAT&apos;S PRETTY MUCH IT.
I JUST WANTED TO BE ANOTHER
VOICE OF SUPPORT FOR
ELIMINATING PARKING MINIMUMS.
&gt;&gt; SO THAT&apos;S ALL.
THANKS VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU, MAYOR.
THERE ARE NO OTHER CALLERS ON
THE LINE
WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SAYING NO IN THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSE ANYONE WE HAVE
BEFORE US THE REGULAR SESSION
MEETING MINUTES OF AUGUST FOR
22 MAY THE MOTION PLEASE
IMPROVE THESE MINUTES MOVE BY
COUNT PARIAH SECOND BY COUNT.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILMAN NELSON DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES ON FAVOR POSED
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED.
WE WANT AN AUDIENCE TO AMEND
SECTION FIVE ONE SIX THREE G
FIVE TWO ZERO ONE ZERO AND FIVE
ABOUT THREE ZERO THAT ONE
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
THE CODE OF THE CITY THAT
HARBOR MARIJUANA LICENSES TREES
IN THE RIGHT OF WAY LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATIONS MOVE BY COUNT AND
BRITISH SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISCUSSION PLEASE OF B
ONE COUNCIL MEMBER HAYNER
THANKS MR. MAYOR.
UNFORTUNATELY I WASN&apos;T HERE
LAST WEEK.
I WOULD HAVE ASKED THE SAME
THING ABOUT SOME UDC TAX
CHANGES THAT WERE BEFORE US
LAST WEEK.
I DON&apos;T FEEL THAT IT&apos;S ENTIRELY
APPROPRIATE TO TAKE THREE
RELATIVELY UNRELATED TAX
CHANGES TO UDC AND PUT THEM IN
THE SAME RESOLUTION I DON&apos;T SIT
THERE FOR FOR INSTANCE I
SUPPORT ONE OF THESE AND DON&apos;T
SUPPORT TWO OF THESE AND YET
I&apos;M NOT DON&apos;T HAVE THE CHOICE
OF VOTING INDEPENDENTLY ON THEM
.
SO I WOULD MOVE THAT WE
SEPARATE FIVE SIXTEEN WHICH IS
THE MARIJUANA CODE AWAY FROM
THE OTHER TWO AND TAKE A
SEPARATE CONVERSATION AND VOTE
ON THESE ITEMS.
I MEAN WE COULD SPLIT THEM INTO
THREES IF ANYONE PREFERRED BUT
THAT&apos;S THE WAY MY VOTE SPLITS
ON THESE THREE ITEMS AND I&apos;M
NOT SURE THAT I HAVE GREATER
CONCERNS ABOUT MAKING THESE TAX
CHANGES.
WE MAKE A LOT OF SO-CALLED TAX
CHANGES WHICH IS SORT OF IN MY
VIEW IS A WAY OF I&apos;M SORRY I
CAN&apos;T START AVOIDING PUBLIC
COMMENT SO YOU&apos;VE MOVED FOR
DIVISION.
WOULD YOU REPEAT WHICH ONE WAS
THAT THAT I WOULD LIKE TO
DIVIDE FIVE SIXTEEN THREE WHICH
IS THE MARIJUANA STACKING FROM
THE OTHER TWO THEIR SECOND
SECOND VOTE COUNTS ARMALITE
YES.
THAT MOTION FRIENDLY FOR
HAYNER.
LET&apos;S DEAL WITH FIVE THAT ONE
SIX POINT ONE THAT THREE G FOR
THE TIME BEING.
WELL THANK YOU FOR DOING THAT
AND AND LIKE I SAY WE&apos;VE PILED
A LOT OF YUDI CHANGES AND WE
CALL THEM TAX CHANGES BUT SOME
OF THESE ARE SUBSTANTIVE
CHANGES.
I KNOW THE WELL WE&apos;VE SEEN IT
BEFORE AND YOU KNOW BECAUSE WE
DO THEM AS TAX CHANGES NOTICE
IS NOT GIVEN AND WE HAD SOME
FOLKS AT THE PUBLIC HEARING AND
I WAS PERFECTLY WILLING TO
SUPPORT THIS MARIJUANA LICENSE
STACKING THIS FIVE SIXTEEN 3G
CHANGE.
&gt;&gt; BUT WE WE DID HEAR FROM
FOLKS I LIVE ABOUT EIGHT BLOCKS
FROM THE CLOSEST MARIJUANA
DISPENSARY.
I WOULD SAY IT&apos;S THE ONE IT&apos;S
CALLED INFORMATION ENTROPY DOWN
THERE ON BROADWAY AND IT&apos;S NOT
REALLY CLOSE TO ME BUT I GO BY
IT EVERY DAY AND I THINK IT&apos;S
REASONABLY LOCATED NOW IT WOULD
BE DIFFICULT FOR ME TO PICTURE
A GROWING PROCESSING AND SO ON
FACILITY.
I KNOW I GUESS I MIGHT LIVE AS
A CROW FLIES CLOSER TO THE
LARGE PROCESSING GROWING AND
PROCESSING FACILITY THAT&apos;S ON
NORTH MAIN.
I AM SYMPATHETIC WITH FOLKS WHO
SAY WE DIDN&apos;T GIVE PROPER
NOTICE WHEN WE CONSIDERED THESE
TAX CHANGES ALTHOUGH I DON&apos;T I
DON&apos;T FORESEE THIS REALLY
CREATING PROBLEMS IN THESE
NEIGHBORHOODS WITH THE STACKING
OF THEM BECAUSE OF OUR OTHER
CONTROLS.
BUT I JUST WANTED TO GET THAT
OUT THERE THAT I AGREE THAT A
TAX CHANGE IN THIS CASE HAS
FAILED TO PROPERLY NOTIFY
PEOPLE AND SO I THAT&apos;S ALL I
APPRECIATE YOU ALLOWING THE
SEPARATION OF THESE TOPICS FOR
FURTHER DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; FIVE OF FIVE ONE SIX THREE
DUCCI CONTEMPORARILY DENILSON
THANKS.
I ASK FOR THE SAME THING
ACTUALLY THESE ARE WILDLY
WILDLY DIFFERENT BUT THE
MARIJUANA ONE IS A WHOLE
DIFFERENT OTHER POLICY ISSUE
THAN THAN THE OTHER TWO AND I
WAS GOING TO MOVE TO DO THE
SAME THING YOU KNOW WE&apos;VE BEEN
VERY SUPPORTIVE OF MARIJUANA
INDUSTRY.
UM I&apos;VE BEEN VERY SUPPORTIVE
OF IT BUT I DO HAVE CONCERNS
HERE THAT WE&apos;VE UM REALLY
MORPHED WHAT WE&apos;RE DOING WITH
THIS BUSINESS IN THIS INDUSTRY
WITH A FULL EXAMINATION AND
WITHOUT GREATER PUBLIC INPUT
INVOLVEMENT AND THIS INDUSTRY
IS GOING UNDER MASSIVE
CONSOLIDATE AND THIS IS NO
LONGER A MOM AND POP SHOP TYPE
OF BUSINESS.
THIS IS HUGE MONEY.
IT&apos;S GOING THROUGH A BIG CHANGE
.
I DON&apos;T LIKE THE LOCATION OF AT
LEAST ONE.
IT IS IN A RESIDENTIAL AREA
THAT&apos;S VERY SENSITIVE.
WE HEARD FROM FROM CONSTITUENTS
TONIGHT UM I DON&apos;T SEE THIS
BEING DONE IN A WAY THAT IS TO
TO THE INTENT AND THAT WAS TO
UM HELP HELP SMALL BUSINESSES
HELP PEOPLE GET THAT THOSE DAYS
ARE OVER WHEN IT COMES TO
MARIJUANA LICENSING AND
MARIJUANA SELLING AND ALL THAT.
SO, UM, RIGHT NOW I THINK IT&apos;S
TIME TO PAUSE.
I THINK, UM, LET THAT INDUSTRY,
YOU KNOW, FIGURE ITSELF OUT AND
AND RESPECT THE WISHES OF THE
NEIGHBORHOOD.
UM, I KNOW THERE ARE SOME
PEOPLE AGAIN THAT ARE NOT
EVERYBODY IS ALL ABOUT IT AND
UH UH I THINK IT&apos;S TIME TO JUST
TAKE A PAUSE ON THIS AND LET
THINGS SETTLE DOWN.
BUT UH I DON&apos;T SEE THIS HELPING
THE SMALL BUSINESS GET INTO
THIS INDUSTRY COUNCIL.
ZIMMER NELSON, THANK YOU.
I APPRECIATE YOUR PERSPECTIVE,
COUNCILMAN MALLOY AND I
ACTUALLY AGREE WITH QUITE A LOT
OF IT.
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
SUPPORT THIS FOR A LOT OF THE
REASONS THAT COUNCIL MEMBER
ROLLAWAY STATED.
ADDITIONALLY I I HAVE A PROBLEM
WITH ALLOWING THE CURBSIDE
SERVICE I I THINK THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER REALLY HIT ON SOMETHING
THAT I HEAR FROM CONSTITUENTS
AS WELL.
WE ARE WE ARE LOOKING AT BIG
BUSINESS THAT IS INCREASINGLY
BIG CORPORATE BUSINESS.
&gt;&gt; I KNOW THAT THESE
DISPENSARIES ARE MEETING A NEED
IN OUR COMMUNITY AND I I AM NOT
I DON&apos;T HAVE A PROBLEM WITH HOW
THEY ARE FUNCTIONING IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
SOME OF OUR RESIDENTS DO.
I HAD A CONSTITUENT POINT OUT
TO ME THAT THERE WAS A
DISPENSARY THAT SHE FELT WAS
ADVERTISING ITSELF IN A
MISLEADING WAY THAT SEEMED TO
CATER TO CHILDREN.
IT LOOKED LIKE COOKIE MONSTER.
I I WILL NOT BE ABLE TO SUPPORT
THIS AMENDMENT.
I THINK THAT THE DISPENSARIES
ARE THRIVING WITHOUT ADDITIONAL
HELP IN IN TERMS OF MAKING IT
EASIER TO GROW.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD DEFINITELY BE
INTERESTED IN TAKING A LOOK AT
HOW THEY&apos;RE FUNCTIONING NOW
BEFORE WE START GROWING THEM
MORE.
&gt;&gt; COUNTERMAN BRITISH
I
APPRECIATE THE POINTS THAT ARE
BEING MADE.
I THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO IT&apos;S
IMPORTANT TO REALIZE THAT THE
MOST SIGNIFICANT CHANGES
PROPOSED BY THIS ORDINANCE
APPLY ONLY TO A CANNABIS
BUSINESS THAT IS LOCATED ON
LOTS OF ZONED INDUSTRIAL SO
SUCH BUSINESSES WOULD BE
PERMITTED TO STAFF OR HOLD UP
TO FIVE LICENSE PER BUT SO
THAT&apos;S ONE THING IF YOU&apos;RE NOT
ON A LOT ZONED INDUSTRIAL, YOU
DON&apos;T GET MORE THAN ONE
ALTHOUGH IF YOU ARE IN A LOT
ZONED RESEARCH OR OFFICE
RESEARCH LIGHT INDUSTRIAL YOU
CAN GET UP TO TWO LICENSES PER
LOT.
SO WE&apos;RE NOT IT ISN&apos;T AS IF ALL
OF A SUDDEN EVERY SINGLE
DISPENSARY IN TOWN WILL BE ABLE
TO STACK LICENSES.
THAT&apos;S JUST NOT NOT CORRECT IN
TERMS OF THE CURBSIDE PICKUP
WHICH WILL MOSTLY MEAN PICK UP
IN PARKING LOTS.
THAT IS SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE
HAVE BEEN DOING DURING COVID
WITH THE CANNABIS INDUSTRY AS
WELL AS WITH RESTAURANTS AND
JUST ABOUT EVERYTHING ELSE YOU
CAN GET CARRIED OVER TO YOUR
CAR THIS AMENDMENT JUST MAKES
THAT COVID PROTOCOL WHICH
DIDN&apos;T CAUSE ANY HARM A PROBLEM
INTO A NORMAL PROTOCOL ON THE
SAME PROOF OF IDENTITY FOR
CURBSIDE PICKUP IS REQUIRED FOR
IN-STORE PURCHASE BECAUSE THOSE
ARE STATE REQUIREMENTS AND THE
PROVIDERS HAVE TO MEET THEM.
WE ARE NOT ADDING OPPORTUNITIES
FOR ADDITIONAL PROVISIONIN
CENTER RETAIL OR CONSUMPTION
LICENSES THOSE REMAIN AT CAPPED
AT TWENTY EIGHT TOTAL EACH AND
I HAVE SPOKEN WITH
ENTREPRENEURS IN THIS AREA WHO
ARE LOCAL WHO ARE NOT BIG
CORPORATE FOLK WHO HAVE SAID
THAT STACKING WILL LOWER THE
COSTS OF ENTRY INTO THIS
BUSINESS.
PART OF THE REASON WE HAVE SEEN
SO MANY CHAINS COME TO US IS
AND SO WHY WE HAVE SO FEW LOCAL
ENTREPRENEURS IN THIS BUSINESS
IS BECAUSE OF THE HIGH COST
OF ENTRY AND SO WE CAN&apos;T LOOK
AT WHAT WE HAVE NOW AND SAY
WELL THAT&apos;S THE KIND
OF BUSINESS IT IS.
IT IS THAT IN PART BECAUSE
OF THE REGULATIONS THAT WE
CURRENTLY HAVE AND SO WE ARE
MAKING A CHANGE THAT IT IS
POSSIBLE WILL LOWER THE COST
OF ENTRY BECAUSE IT WILL ALLOW
FIVE DIFFERENT KINDS OF LICENSE
HOLDERS TO GROUP UNDER ONE ROOF
FOR THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL
WORKERS HOLD.
YEAH, I APPRECIATE THE COMMENTS
OF COUNCIL MEMBER DISH AND I
UNDERSTAND IT BETTER NOW BUT I
WOULD PREFER THAT THIS GO BACK
TO STAFF AND WE HAVE A
TRANSPARENT PROCESS WHERE
PEOPLE CAN WEIGH IN IF THEY
LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD CLOSE TO
WHAT WAS APPROVED AS A PHARMACY
BECAUSE I THINK THAT THERE&apos;S A
LOT OF MISINFORMATION, A LOT
OF OF FEAR HERE AND THIS IS
THIS IS NOT A GOOD PROCESS FOR
US TO LUMP ALL THIS TOGETHER
AND AND PUSH IT THROUGH TO MY
KNOWLEDGE AND I&apos;D LIKE TO ASK
STAFF THIS QUESTION I BELIEVE
WE ONLY HAVE ONE MINORITY OWNED
DISPENSARY IN THIS COMMUNITY,
OK AND I HAVE SOME PERSONAL
INFORMATION ABOUT THE STRUGGLES
WITH THAT ONE MINORITY OWNED
DISPENSARY.
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO GO INTO THEM
RIGHT NOW BUT WE CAN&apos;T MAKE
ASSUMPTIONS THAT OUR BEST CASE
SCENARIO SO I WILL NOT BE
SUPPORTING THIS.
I WOULD SUPPORT IT IF IT CAME
BACK WITH THE INFORMATION AND
WE GAVE THE NEIGHBORS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO WEIGH IN SO IT
DIDN&apos;T FEEL IT JUST REMINDS ME
OF T.S. ONE.
I MEAN LET&apos;S JUST DO IT BECAUSE
IT&apos;S A GREAT IDEA AND THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S NOT THE CASE HERE.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS MALLAK
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH PERHAPS
SPEAK A LITTLE MORE TO PROCESS
BUT I CERTAINLY KNOW THAT THIS
HAS HAD A PROCESS AND HAS GONE
THROUGH PLANNING COMMISSION AND
I I&apos;VE I&apos;VE WATCHED THAT
SESSION MYSELF AND LISTENED TO
THE PUBLIC COMMENT THAT
OCCURRED THERE.
SO I DO KNOW THAT THAT THERE
HAS BEEN AN OPPORTUNITY FOR FOR
PUBLIC INPUT BEFORE IT CAME TO
COUNCIL.
I THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO NOTE
THAT ESPECIALLY WITH MANY
OF THESE DISCUSSIONS AROUND
RESIDENTIAL AREAS AROUND
DISPENSARIES THAT MIGHT THEN
GET A LICENSE FOR CONSUMPTION
CENTER AND IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO
KNOW THAT THAT ACTUALLY DOES
STILL REQUIRE A PUBLIC PROCESS.
IT WOULD REQUIRE A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE AND SO THAT WOULD
GO BEFORE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AGAIN AND THERE
WOULD BE ANOTHER PUBLIC HEARING
AND SO THERE&apos;S REALLY NO NEED
TO SEND BACK TO PLANNING TO
HAVE MORE OF A PUBLIC PROCESS
BECAUSE THAT WILL EXIST IF
THERE&apos;S IF THERE&apos;S AN
APPLICATION FOR A CONSUMPTION
CENTER.
SO YOU KNOW, I THINK THAT
RESIDENTS WILL HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO WEIGH IN ON THIS
AS THEY MOVE FORWARD AND THIS
IS SOMETHING AT DIFFERENT
PROVISIONING CENTERS APPLY FOR
KALTENBRUNNER.
THANK YOU.
I&apos;M HAPPY TO SUPPORT THIS
CHANGE HAVING TALKED TO THE
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH ABOUT IT
AND ASKING MY QUESTIONS AND
HAVING HER WALK ME THROUGH WALK
ME THROUGH IN PARTICULAR WHAT
SHE WAS JUST TALKING ABOUT IN
TERMS OF REDUCING THE BARRIER
TO ENTRY TO ME THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
REALLY IMPORTANT.
IT&apos;S A IT&apos;S A BIG GOAL OF MINE
TO HELP HOWEVER WE CAN AS A AS
A POLICYMAKING BODY CREATE A
GREATER DIVERSITY OF BUSINESS
OWNERS OF PEOPLE WHO ARE ABLE
TO COME IN AND DO BUSINESS IN
THE CITY AND TO MAKE IT MORE
ACCESSIBLE TO PEOPLE WHO DON&apos;T
HAVE ACCESS TO LOADS OF CAPITAL
TO GET STARTED.
SO I&apos;M PERFECTLY COMFORTABLE
WITH WITH THIS CHANGE AND WITH
THE WITH THE PROCESS THAT&apos;S
UNDERGONE SO FAR AND WITH WHAT
WILL MOVE FORWARD AND THAT THE
PROCESS THAT ALWAYS HAPPENS
WHEN THERE ARE APPLICATIONS OR
FOR FOR THESE TYPES OF THINGS
IN THE FUTURE.
&gt;&gt; SO HAPPY TO SUPPORT THIS
TONIGHT THE DISCUSSION
COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, AS SOMEONE MENTIONED
TONIGHT, THIS IS ABOUT BIG
MONEY AGRESSOR BIG MONEY IN
REDUCING THE BARRIER TO ENTRY
THAT IS GREAT GREATER
DIVERSITY.
ABSOLUTELY.
BUT THAT&apos;S NOT REALITY IN THIS
COMMUNITY REGARDING THE
MARIJUANA MARKET.
AND SO I&apos;D LIKE TO HAVE STAFF
LOOK AT THIS AND HAVE IT COME
BACK SO THAT WE UNDERSTAND
EXACTLY WHAT THE REALITY IS.
WE CAN&apos;T JUST BASE IT ON
WISHFUL THINKING BECAUSE THAT
IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO BE REALIZED
THAT WAY.
&gt;&gt; SO SO LET&apos;S GET ALL THE
FACTS.
LET&apos;S MAKE SURE THE PUBLIC IS
ENGAGED AND I JUST WANT TO SAY
YES, THE PLANNING COMMISSION
HAS A PROCESS THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS NOT ELECTED BY
THE PUBLIC.
THEY&apos;RE NOT ANSWERABLE TO THE
PUBLIC AND SO COUNCIL NEEDS TO
ASK THESE DIFFICULT QUESTIONS
AND GET THE ANSWERS FOR OUR
CONSTITUENTS.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M SORRY.
YEAH, THANK YOU AGAIN.
I&apos;LL JUST CONTINUE TO PUSH BACK
ON THE FACT THIS IS GOING TO
OPEN IT UP FOR SMALLER
ENTREPRENEURS.
I THINK THOSE DAYS ARE LONG
GONE AGAIN WE HAVE MISSION
CREEP IN THIS INDUSTRY.
UM, I&apos;M JUST A BIT CONFUSED BY
SOME OF THE STATEMENTS THAT
HAVE BEEN MADE THAT THIS
WOULDN&apos;T AFFECT MORE THAN A
HANDFUL OF OF, UH, CURRENT
LICENSED FACILITIES.
AND IF I COULD HAVE STAFF UM
GIVE US AN EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
REAL QUICK AND AND WHAT THIS
DOES AND HOW MANY PLACES IT
AFFECTS.
UM, IF WE COULD THANK YOU IN
COUNCIL AND BEL AIR AND THE
PLANNING MANAGER HALTIWANGER I
I DON&apos;T HAVE A SPECIFIC NUMBER
.
WHAT IT DOES IS IT ELIMINATES
RESTRICTIONS ON THE NUMBER
OF LICENSES PER PROPERTY SO IT
DOES INCREASE THE OPPORTUNITY
FOR MULTIPLE LICENSES TO BE
ISSUED THAT IS COULD BE A
PROVISIONING CENTER RETAILER
AND DESIGNATED CONSUMPTION
FACILITY AS IS CURRENTLY
PERMITTED IN OUR ORDINANCE IT
COULD ALLOW TO GROWERS OR THREE
GROWERS OR FIVE GROWERS AT THE
SAME PROPERTY WHEREAS UNDER OUR
CURRENT ORDINANCE THAT SO IT
DOES NOT CHANGE ANY OF THE
LOCATIONAL REQUIREMENTS,
DOESN&apos;T CHANGE THE PROCESS
REQUIREMENTS AS HAS PREVIOUSLY
DISCUSSED WITH THANK YOU
COUNCIL MEMBER IHR.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
JUST ONE OTHER QUICK THOUGHT.
IT OCCURRED TO ME AS WE WERE
SITTING HERE TALKING THAT TO ME
A GOOD ANALOGY TO THIS IS A
FOOD TRUCK SITUATION.
YOU KNOW YOU GET A A GROUP I&apos;M
THINKING ABOUT DOWNTOWN HOME
AND GARDEN WHEN THEY HAD THEIR
THEIR FOOD TRUCK PARKING LOT
THAT ACTUALLY ENDED UP
LAUNCHING NEW RESTAURANTS IN
OUR COMMUNITY AND WENT ON TO BE
VERY SUCCESSFUL AND THEY WERE
ABLE TO DO THAT BECAUSE THEY
WERE ABLE TO COLLABORATE SORT
OF YOU KNOW, SORT OF A CO-OP
SITUATION AND GET THEIR START.
AND YOU KNOW, I THINK IT SORT
OF DEFIES LOGIC TO ME THAT THAT
THIS WOULDN&apos;T BE SOMEHOW
HELPFUL IN THIS IN THIS IN THE
MARIJUANA INDUSTRY THE WAY, YOU
KNOW, FOOD TRUCK SITUATIONS IN
THE RESTAURANT INDUSTRY OR THE
DISCUSSION ROLL CALL VOTE
PLEASE.
PARDON ME.
THIS IS WITH ONLY WITH RESPECT
TO FIVE THAT ONE SIX TOP THREE
DRUG ROLL CALL VOTE PLEASE WITH
RESPECT TO FIVE THAT ONE SIX
TOP THREE DUCCI STARTING WITH
OVER BREAKS CUSTOMER BREAKS YES
CUSTOMER I NO CUSTOMER HAYNER
YES CUSTOMER DISH YES CUSTOMER
GRISWOLD NO CUSTOMER SONG YES
CUSTOMER GRAHAM YES CUSTOMER
DENHA YES MAYOR TAYLOR YES.
CUSTOMER YES CUSTOMER NELSON NO
WASHING CARS FOR THEIR
DISCUSSION OF 5.2 PROBABLY
FORGOT TO ZERO ONE ZERO AND
FIVE THREE ZERO ONE FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
HAYNER.
WELL THANKS.
JUST REAL BRIEFLY SOMETHING I
WANTED TO ADD TO THIS THAT I
MEAN I DON&apos;T SUPPORT THESE TAX
CHANGES LIKE THIS.
I JUST I DON&apos;T LOVE THE
PROCESSES INVOLVED AND YOU
KNOW, THAT&apos;S FOR ME TO SAY IT&apos;S
A SHAME THAT WE&apos;RE NOT DOING
MORE TO ENCOURAGE XERISCAPING
OR WATER REDUCTION, DROUGHT
TYPE LANDSCAPING.
I SAW THAT THAT WAS SUBSTITUTED
SOME OTHER STUFF WAS
SUBSTITUTED FOR THAT BECAUSE IT
DOESN&apos;T REALLY COME UP BUT IT
SHOULD BECAUSE YOU MAY RECALL
THAT THE TIERING OF THE WATER
RATES, THE CHANGING OF THE
TIERING OF THE WATER RATES WAS
PARTIALLY BASED ON THE
CONSIDERATIONS OF IRRIGATION IN
OUR COMMUNITIES AND WELL I
DON&apos;T THINK THAT WAS APPLIED
PROPERLY IN THAT MANY, MANY
MULTIFAMILY UNITS IRRIGATE USE
IRRIGATION APARTMENT COMPLEXES
AND SO ON AND THEY GOT A BREAK
AND IT WAS CLAIMED THAT IN
AUBURN HILLS AND OTHER WEALTHY
AREAS OF OUR COMMUNITY DO USE
IRRIGATION AND I&apos;M SURE THEY
DO.
I MEAN I DON&apos;T I DO SORT OF A
RAIN GARDENING XERISCAPING KIND
OF THING AT MY PLACE ANYWAY.
POINT IS WE SHOULD BE
ENCOURAGING IT NOT STRIKING IT
FROM THIS AND I ALSO DON&apos;T LIKE
THE WAY IT SHRINKS THE
CALCULATIONS ON LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATIONS AND AND TREES AND
SO ON.
I&apos;M JUST SORT OF UNHAPPY WITH
WHAT&apos;S BEFORE ME SO I&apos;M NOT
GOING TO SUPPORT IT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
SO NO DISH OK SO IF IF I&apos;M
UNDERSTANDING THESE
MODIFICATIONS CORRECTLY AND I
INVITE MR. LEONARD TO CHIME IN
AFTER I&apos;VE SPOKEN UM THE THE
THE ONE MODIFICATION IS JUST TO
EXCLUDE THE WIDTH OF CURB CUTS
FROM THE UH FROM LINEAR FEET
THAT GO INTO CALCULATING HOW
MANY STREET TREES NEED TO BE
PROVIDED.
&gt;&gt; SO IT&apos;S ONE STREET TREE FOR
EVERY FORTY FIVE LINEAR FEET
BUT IF BUT EXCLUDING CURB
CUTS
IN CALCULATING 45 LINEAR FEET
AND IN THE WITH THE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATIONS IT&apos;S NOT REALLY
STRIKING ANYTHING.
IT&apos;S MAKING THINGS A LITTLE BIT
MORE FLEXIBLE SO IT MAKES TREES
THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
ELIGIBLE FOR MODIFICATIONS
WHICH THEY HAVEN&apos;T BEEN AND IT
SPELLS OUT THE CONDITIONS FOR
GETTING A MODIFICATION WHICH
MOSTLY HAVE TO DO WITH THE WITH
IMPEDIMENTS TO VIABILITY.
I MEAN WE DON&apos;T WANT YOU TO
REPLACE SOMETHING THAT&apos;S
WORKING WELL WITH LANDSCAPING
THAT MAY NOT WORK AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; WE DON&apos;T WANT WE DON&apos;T WANT
YOU TO PUT LANDSCAPING IN WHERE
THERE ARE OBSTRUCTIONS THAT&apos;S
GOING TO MAKE IT DI SO PLEASE,
MR. LEONARD, IF YOU WOULD LIKE
TO SPECIFY FURTHER THAT WOULD
BE GREAT.
THANK YOU.
COUNCILMAN BRITISH YES.
THAT&apos;S INTENTION AND
SPECIFICALLY WAS THE FIRST
CHANGE YOU INDICATED THERE&apos;S
ALSO A REMOVAL OF AN ESCROW
WHICH WAS PRETTY MODEST AMOUNT
THAT IS TO PUT IT IS WE HAVE
THE ABILITY TO ENFORCE THAT
PROVISION WITHOUT THE ISSUANCE
OF A CERTIFICATE OCCUPANCY
THAT&apos;S TRYING TO JUST CREATE A
MORE EFFICIENT PROCESS AS WELL
AS THE LANDSCAPE MODIFICATIONS,
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION ACTUALLY
PREDATED THE REQUIREMENTS FOR
STREET TREES AND SO WHAT
HAPPENED?
SO STREET TREE REQUIREMENTS
WERE ADDED TO OUR LANDSCAPE
REQUIREMENTS THAT CHANGED THAT
WAS NEVER REFLECTED.
SO PART OF THIS IS THAT INTENT
AS YOU DESCRIBED IT COULD BE
SOME OF THE RECENT INSTANCES
WHERE WE HAVE SORT OF EVIDENCE
OF SORT OF VARIANCE IN THE
CIRCUMSTANCE OR FULLY SUPPORTED
BY THE CITY BECAUSE THEY MIGHT
CREATE THE VISIBILITY ISSUE.
THEY MIGHT BE IN AN AREA
OF CONTAMINATION.
INFRASTRUCTURE WHERE WE DON&apos;T
THEY MIGHT BE IN AN AREA
WANT THE STREET TREES IMPACTING
INFRASTRUCTURE WHERE WE DON&apos;T
OR ADVERSELY ADVERSELY
WANT THE STREET TREES IMPACTING
IMPACTING EXISTING
OR ADVERSELY ADVERSELY
INFRASTRUCTURE.
IMPACTING EXISTING
SO THE INTENTION IS TO PUT
INFRASTRUCTURE.
THESE STANDARDS IN PLACE THAT
SO THE INTENTION IS TO PUT
ARE MORE APROPOS TO ACTUALLY
THESE STANDARDS IN PLACE THAT
WHAT WE&apos;VE EXPERIENCED.
ARE MORE APROPOS TO ACTUALLY
THERE WAS A COMMENT ABOUT
WHAT WE&apos;VE EXPERIENCED.
XERISCAPE THAT NEVER HAD A
THERE WAS A COMMENT ABOUT
DEVELOPER AND THAT AS PART
XERISCAPE THAT NEVER HAD A
OF THE REQUIREMENT AND
DEVELOPER AND THAT AS PART
FORTUNATELY WE REALLY EVOLVED
OF THE REQUIREMENT AND
OVER TIME AS WELL THAT OUR
FORTUNATELY WE REALLY EVOLVED
STAFF AND A MUCH LARGER
OVER TIME AS WELL THAT OUR
PETITIONERS ARE REALLY
STAFF AND A MUCH LARGER
COMMITTED TO NATIVE LANDSCAPING
PETITIONERS ARE REALLY
THE LIKE AND WE LOOK AT THOSE
COMMITTED TO NATIVE LANDSCAPING
NATIVE SPECIES AND THE LIKE TO
THE LIKE AND WE LOOK AT THOSE
ENCOURAGE SUCCESS AND THOSE
NATIVE SPECIES AND THE LIKE TO
PLANTS THAT MIGHT DO BETTER
ENCOURAGE SUCCESS AND THOSE
WITH LESS WATERING AS WELL.
PLANTS THAT MIGHT DO BETTER
FURTHER DISCUSSION ROLL-CALL
WITH LESS WATERING AS WELL.
VOTE PLEASE WITH RESPECT TO 5.0
FURTHER DISCUSSION ROLL-CALL
ONE ZERO AND FIVE THREE ZERO
VOTE PLEASE WITH RESPECT TO 5.0
THAT ONE STARTING IF COUNCIL
ONE ZERO AND FIVE THREE ZERO
MEMBER BRIGS SWARBRICK YES
THAT ONE STARTING IF COUNCIL
THAT&apos;S PART OF MY YES COUNCILOR
MEMBER BRIGS SWARBRICK YES
HAYNER NO THAT&apos;S MY DID YEAH.
THAT&apos;S PART OF MY YES COUNCILOR
YES THAT&apos;S MY GRISWOLD.
HAYNER NO THAT&apos;S MY DID YEAH.
YES THAT&apos;S MURSAU.
YES THAT&apos;S MY GRISWOLD.
YES THAT&apos;S YES THAT&apos;S MY DENHA.
YES THAT&apos;S MURSAU.
YES.
YES THAT&apos;S YES THAT&apos;S MY DENHA.
RETAILOR YES THAT&apos;S RIGHT YES.
YES.
ELSMERE NELSON YES.
RETAILOR YES THAT&apos;S RIGHT YES.
&gt;&gt; MOTION CARRIES NINE TWENTY
ELSMERE NELSON YES.
FIVE.
&gt;&gt; MOTION CARRIES NINE TWENTY
LET&apos;S TAKE A SHORT BREAK
FIVE.
RECONVENE PLEASE AT NINE THIRTY
LET&apos;S TAKE A SHORT BREAK
FIVE
ON
.
SO THE ELIMINATION OF PARKING
MINIMUMS IS AN ENORMOUS AND
LONG AWAITED STEP FORWARD TO
OUR AFFORDABLE HOUSING GOALS.
AND AS MR JUST SAVAGE MENTIONED
TO OUR VISION FOR 20 MINUTES
NEIGHBORHOODS, THIS ORDINANCE
AFFIRMS THAT IT&apos;S BETTER TO USE
SPACE TO HOUSE PEOPLE THAN
STORE CARS AND IT&apos;S BETTER
STILL TO PARE AWAY WASTEFUL
EXPENSE FROM THE COST
OF HOUSING PEOPLE.
SO MANDATORY PARKING WINDOWS
ADD UNNECESSARY EXPENSE.
&gt;&gt; ALL OF THAT IS PRETTY EASY
AND UNCONTROVERSIAL.
&gt;&gt; WE HEARD A LOT ABOUT WELL
LET&apos;S TAKE THE NEXT STEP AND DO
PARKING DO A PARKING MAXIMUM
AND IN FACT THIS ORDINANCE DOES
GO ANOTHER STEP AND SET A
PARKING MAXIMUM FOR TAXI ONE IN
TWO WAYS.
THE FIRST WAY IS IT SETS A CAP
AT THREE PARKING SPACES FOR
1000 SQUARE FEET OF FOUR FLOOR
AREA BUT AND THAT&apos;S GOOD STAFF
DECIDED THAT THESE ARE MIXED
USE.
&gt;&gt; IDEALLY THESE ARE MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENTS AND SET THE NUMBER
AT SOMETHING THAT COULD FLEX
THAT WOULD BE A LITTLE BIT MORE
THAN YOU WOULD NEED FOR A
STRICTLY RESIDENTIAL PLACE.
BUT LESS THAN YOU WOULD NEED
FOR A STRICT OFFICE BUILDING.
SO THAT SEEMS LIKE A GOOD
APPROACH FOR NOW.
WE&apos;LL SEE HOW IT WORKS.
BUT AN IMPORTANT THING TO KNOW
IS THAT THIS ORDINANCE ALSO
GOVERNS HOW THAT PARKING CAN BE
PROVIDED.
&gt;&gt; THERE IS A LEGISLATIVE
BARRIER TO SEIZE OF PARKING
BECAUSE WE HAVE LIMITED THE
SQUARE FOOTAGE THAT CAN BE
DEVOTED TO SURFACE PARKING.
THE SIZE OF A SURFACE LIGHT
CANNOT EXCEED THE FOOTPRINT
OF THE BUILDING IF A
DEVELOPMENT DOES NOT REACH ITS
MAX WITH A SERVICE LOT AND IF
THERE IS A DESIRE FOR MORE
ADDITIONAL SPACES MUST BE
PROVIDED WITH STRUCTURED
PARKING.
PARKING STRUCTURES ARE
EXPENSIVE SO THERE IS A
REGULATORY LIMIT TO THE AMOUNT
OF PARKING TO BE PROVIDED AND A
BUILT IN FINANCIAL DISINCENTIVE
TO PROVIDING MORE THAN IS
NECESSARY FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MAHINA THANKS.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF FACTORS THAT COME INTO PLAY
HERE.
WE JUST HAD A TWO HUNDRED FORTY
PERCENT INCREASE IN THE TRANSIT
AND I DON&apos;T WONDER HOW MANY
CARS IT&apos;S GOING TO REMOVE FROM
OUR COMMUNITY.
I WISH THAT WE DID MORE.
I WISH THAT THIS DID MORE WHEN
WE TALK ABOUT KTK ONE IS THE
EXAMPLE THAT WAS JUST GIVEN
THAT YOU KNOW, WE WE NEED TO
REQUIRE PLACES FOR THE SERVICE
VEHICLES ESPECIALLY WE NEED TO
REQUIRE PLACES FOR THESE
VEHICLES TO GET OFF OF OUR
STREETS.
IT&apos;S A CREATES SERIOUS HAZARDS
WHEN WE DON&apos;T HAVE THAT IN OUR
IN OUR UDC IN OUR PLANNING AND
ZONING REQUIREMENTS THAT THERE
ARE VEHICLE ZONES OFF OF OUR
STREETS AND IT&apos;S A FALLACY TO
PRESUME THAT THERE WILL BE NO
SERVICE VEHICLES MOVING THROUGH
OUR COMMUNITY IN THE NEXT
DECADE OR TWO.
IT JUST DEFIES THE REALITY
OF THE THE BUILT THE
ENVIRONMENT THAT WE LIVE IN
EVERY SINGLE BUILDING THAT WE
BUILD ESPECIALLY LARGE BUILDING
IS IT JUST TAKE LOOK IN THEIR
PARKING AND IT&apos;S FULL
OF SERVICE VEHICLES EVERY DAY.
I MEAN I DON&apos;T EVEN KNOW WHERE
TO START.
THIS IS MAKING IT CHEAPER TO
BUILD THAT&apos;S FOR SURE.
TOM STALBERG MENTIONED THAT IN
THE CALL IN IT DOES THE
POTENTIAL FOR MORE SQUARE
FOOTAGE BUT REALLY WE&apos;RE
LEAVING IT UP TO THE INDUSTRY.
WHAT COULD POSSIBLY GO WRONG
WITH THAT?
IT MAY OR MAY NOT REDUCE THE
AMOUNT CARS USING OUR
COMMUNITY.
IT MAY JUST PUSH THE PROBLEM
INTO THE INTO THE STREETS, INTO
NEIGHBORHOODS AND OTHER OTHER
SUPPOSED PUBLIC SPACES.
I THINK IT&apos;S NOT NECESSARY
ANYMORE TO PRETEND THAT WE
AREN&apos;T TRYING TO GET RID
OF CARS IN OUR COMMUNITY THAT
QUITE CLEARLY WE ARE NOW IS IT
A STEP TOO FAR TO SAY THAT THIS
COUNCIL&apos;S POLICIES IN ADOPTING
THIS AND OTHERS ARE ANTI CAR
PERHAPS THAT IS TOO HARSH
LANGUAGE BUT THAT&apos;S THE ESSENCE
OF IT.
WE ARE PRESUMING THAT BY NOT
ALLOWING A PLACE FOR CARS TO
EXIST BE THERE GASOLINE OR
ELECTRIC THAT WE ARE GOING TO
BE RID OF CARS AND I&apos;M NOT SURE
THAT YOU KNOW WELL WE CAN BE
HOPEFUL FOR THAT.
I&apos;M NOT SURE THAT THERE&apos;S ANY
EVIDENCE TO SUGGEST OTHERWISE
AS FAR AS 20 NEIGHBORHOODS GO,
I I THINK THAT WE CAN ALL VALUE
THAT NOTION AND YET WE&apos;VE HAD
IT PUSHED IN OUR FACE AND ARE
ABOUT TO HAVE IT PUSHED IN OUR
FACE TIME AND TIME AGAIN SEE
THE GEORGE THAT&apos;S GOING TO COME
BEFORE US THAT THEY&apos;RE GOING TO
TURN THAT ALL OVER TO
RESIDENTIAL HERE.
IT&apos;S NOT GOING TO BE ANY TWENTY
MINUTE NEIGHBORHOOD ACTION
THERE IF WE APPROVE THAT JUST
LIKE THERE ISN&apos;T ANY TWENTY
MINUTE BARELY ANY TWENTY MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOOD LEFT IN LOWERTOWN
MY NEIGHBORHOOD I BOUGHT MY
HOUSE SO I COULD WALK TO WORK
AND WALK TO KROGER AND NOW I
CAN DO NEITHER.
&gt;&gt; SO PARKING DOING AWAY WITH
PARKING MINIMUMS IS IT A STEP
IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION.
TIME WILL TELL.
I AM KIND OF TORN ON THIS ONE.
I THINK IT&apos;S APPROPRIATE TO SAY
THAT WE DO HAVE SEAS OF PARKING
BUT I THINK THERE&apos;S OTHER WAYS
TO TO APPROACH IT THAT AREN&apos;T
PART OF THIS CONVERSATION AND I
THINK THAT&apos;S UNFORTUNATE.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER DISH PART
OF ME COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGS
THANK YOU.
I AM EXCITED TO BE PASSING THIS
EVENING ARE VOTING IN FAVOR
OF IT THIS EVENING.
I THINK WE HEARD A GREAT DEAL
OF ENTHUSIASM DURING PUBLIC
COMMENT WHICH IS REALLY
WONDERFUL TO SEE HOW THIS IS
BEING RECEIVED BY OUR COMMUNITY
.
I THINK IT&apos;S VERY MUCH IN LINE
WITH THE PLANS THAT WE&apos;VE
RECENTLY ADOPTED IN TERMS
OF OUR CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN,
OUR TRANSPORTATION PLAN.
THAT&apos;S BOTH WHAT YOU CALLED FOR
THIS BOTH OF WHICH UNANIMOUSLY
ADOPTED AT THIS BODY AND BOTH
OF WHICH DID CALL UPON US TO
FIGURE OUT WAYS TO REDUCE CAR
USAGE IN OUR COMMUNITY FOR A
VARIETY OF GOOD REASONS CLIMATE
ACTION, CLIMATE CHANGE IS
HAPPENING AND WE NEED TO BE
PLANNING FOR OUR FUTURE IN A
WAY THAT&apos;S BENEFICIAL.
BUT IN TERMS OF RESTRICTING
CARS, ALL THAT THIS IS DOING IS
IS REMOVING THE REQUIREMENT TO
HAVE PARKING MINIMUM DEVELOPERS
ARE STILL LIKELY GOING TO
DETERMINE WHAT LEVEL OF PARKING
IS THEY NEED IN THEIR
DEVELOPMENT AND THAT LEAVES IT
TO THE MARKET TO DETERMINE
WHETHER OR NOT THERE IS A NEED
FOR PARKING AT THAT SPACE OR
AND NOT TO OVER PARK THAT AREA,
WHICH IS WHAT WE HAVE DONE
HISTORICALLY ALL ACROSS THE
UNITED STATES.
SO THIS IS DEFINITELY A
BENEFICIAL MOVE FORWARD FOR OUR
COMMUNITY FOR AND IT&apos;S A
COUNTRY BECAUSE WE&apos;RE SEEING
BENEFICIAL MOVE FORWARD FOR OUR
THIS TREND ALL ACROSS THE
COUNTRY BECAUSE WE&apos;RE SEEING
UNITED
STATES IN TERMS
OF WHETHER OR NOT IT&apos;S WORKING.
YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE STILL FAIRLY
EARLY IN THIS TREND BUT I&apos;M
LOOKING AT A TWENTY TWENTY TWO
ARTICLE FROM PLANNING AMERICAN
PLANNING ASSOCIATION.
I&apos;LL JUST READ BRIEFLY FROM IT
IN SEATTLE AND BUFFALO SEPARATE
GROUPS OF ACADEMIC RESEARCHERS
IN 2020 AND 2021 RESPECTIVELY
FOUND THAT AFTER POLICY CHANGES
CONCERNING PARKING MINIMUMS A
LARGE PORTION OF DEVELOPERS DID
BUILD LESS PARKING PREVIOUSLY
REQUIRED AND THEY PARTICULARLY
TOOK ADVANTAGE OF THE COST
SAVINGS TO BUILD MIXED USE
PROJECTS.
AND IN SAN DIEGO, ANOTHER GROUP
OF ACADEMIC RESEARCHERS 2021
FOUND THAT IN THE FIRST YEAR
AFTER PARKING REFORMS PROPOSALS
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS
JUMPED FIVE FOLD.
THESE ARE THE CHANGES THAT
WE&apos;VE SAID WE WANT TO SEE IN
OUR COMMUNITY AND THESE ARE THE
POLICY REFORMS THAT WILL HELP
US GET US THERE NERDISH.
&gt;&gt; YES, I WANTED TO ASK A
QUESTION OF MR. LEONARD AND I
JUST WONDERED IF THE UDC WOULD
BE THE PLACE TO REGULATE
PROVISION OF SPACE FOR SERVICE
VEHICLES.
IT COULD BE I THINK IT IS IT&apos;S
A CHALLENGING PROVISION BECAUSE
I DON&apos;T THINK THAT THE ANSWERS
ARE THE SAME THROUGHOUT OUR
COMMUNITY.
THINK ABOUT HOW WE MIGHT WANT
TO ACCOMMODATE THAT IN OUR
DOWNTOWN VERSUS IN OTHER AREAS
OF THE CITY AND OTHER AREAS.
BUT THEY THEY COULD BE THAT
COULD BE A REGULATION IN THE
PAST COMMUNITIES HAVE HAD
LOADING REQUIREMENTS FOR
EXAMPLE FOR LIKE ACTUAL TRUCKS
AT LOADING DOCKS AND THE LIKE.
SO IT&apos;S POSSIBLE BUT I I DO
THINK THAT AND I IN FRANKLY THE
PLANNING COMMISSION HAS
IDENTIFIED THAT AS SOMETHING
THAT WARRANT SOME ATTENTION AND
I KNOW LIKEWISE THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY HAS
STARTED THINKING ABOUT THAT IN
THE CONTEXT OF HERMANA EVENT
DOWNTOWN AS WELL
.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I STRONGLY SUPPORT THIS CHANGE
THAT WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE MAKING
TONIGHT.
I&apos;M REALLY EXCITED ABOUT IT.
I THINK THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
IS A TAX A LOT OF BOXES IN
TERMS OF SUPPORTING OUR
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS ARE OUR
TWO ZERO PLAN CALLS FOR IT.
OUR TRANSPORTATION PLAN IN
TERMS OF WANTING TO INCREASE
OUR PUBLIC TRANSIT AND OUR
AFFORDABILITY PROBLEM THAT WE
HAVE HERE SO FOR ALL OF THOSE
REASONS THAT HAVE ALREADY BEEN
STATED, I STRONGLY SUPPORT
THIS.
THERE&apos;S ONE THAT DOESN&apos;T OFTEN
GET TALKED ABOUT AS WELL AND
THAT&apos;S I VIEW THIS THROUGH AN
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT LENS
BECAUSE LARGE PARKING LOTS TAKE
LARGE PIECES OF LAND OUT
OF PRODUCTIVE USE FOR OUR CITY
AND I&apos;M EXCITED TO SEE NEW USES
FOR THOSE SPACES AGAIN AS
OTHERS HAVE MENTIONED THIS IS
THAT REMOVING THE MINIMUM
DOESN&apos;T MEAN THERE WON&apos;T BE
PARKING AND ONE THING I DO
WORRY ABOUT A LITTLE BIT IS
WHETHER FINANCING WILL WILL
SORT OF KEEP PACE WITH US
CHANGE OR IF DEVELOPERS WILL
STILL FIND THAT THAT THEY NEED
TO HAVE A CERTAIN AMOUNT
OF PARKING IN ORDER TO GET THE
FINANCING THEY NEED.
AND SO THAT IS SOMETHING THAT I
THINK WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE TO
JUST KEEP AN EYE ON AND AND
MONITOR HOW IT&apos;S WORKING AND
TRY TO FIND OUT PEOPLE ARE
STILL BUILDING LARGE UM,
AMOUNTS OF PARKING, YOU KNOW,
TRY TO SUSS OUT WHY THAT IS IS
REALLY THE MARKET OR IS IT THE
FINANCING PIECE AND THEN TRY TO
TACKLE THAT AS WELL.
BUT OVERALL I&apos;M REALLY EXCITED
ABOUT THE STEP.
I THINK IT&apos;S A GREAT FIRST STEP
AND I&apos;LL BE SUPPORTING IT
COUNTS MEMBER EVERYBODY.
THANK YOU.
THEY DON&apos;T SHARE A KIND
OF ENTHUSIASTIC OPTIMISM FOR
THIS CHANGE.
WHAT I&apos;M HEARING MOSTLY IS THAT
WE&apos;RE GOING TO ALLOW THE MARKET
TO FIGURE THIS OUT THE SAME
MARKET AND THE SAME GREED THAT
GOT US HERE IN THE FIRST PLACE
IS NOT GOING TO HELP US.
&gt;&gt; SO I DON&apos;T SHARE THIS GREAT
SENSE OF OPTIMISM THAT THIS ONE
CHANGE IS GOING TO USHER IN ALL
THESE SOCIAL BENEFITS.
MY PROBLEM WITH THIS IS THAT
AGAIN WE&apos;RE MESSING WITH LAND
USE IN A PIECEMEAL FASHION.
CITIES ARE SYSTEMS TRANSFER
STATION IS AN INTEGRAL PART
OF LAND USE.
SO WE&apos;RE DOING THIS OUTSIDE
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN REVIEW SHOULD HAVE BEEN
DONE NEARLY FIVE YEARS AGO AND
WE&apos;RE SAYING THE MARKET IS
GOING TO FIX IT FOR US.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO AGAIN CHANGE
THINGS LIKE WE DID IN DC ONE
AND TELL PEOPLE IT&apos;S GOING TO
BRING YOU ALL THIS PUBLIC
BENEFIT WITHOUT ANY ASSURANCES
,WITHOUT EMBEDDING THE
SUSTAINABILITY AND THE
AFFORDABILITY MEASURES THAT WE
CAN WHEN WE DO THESE THINGS.
I AM JUST NOT SO SURE THAT WE
CAN CALL THINGS OUT THAT
HAPPENED IN CALIFORNIA AND SAY
THEY&apos;RE GOING TO HAPPEN IN
MICHIGAN.
THERE ARE SO MANY DIFFERENT
THINGS THERE THAT IT&apos;S NOT A
FAIR COMPARISON AND ONE THAT I
I WOULDN&apos;T USE.
PEOPLE ARE FREE TO USE IT.
WHAT WE&apos;RE DOING HERE IS WE&apos;RE
TRYING TO DO SOME SOCIAL
ENGINEERING BUT THEN WE&apos;RE
GOING TO ALLOW THE MARKET TO
FIGURE OUT THE SAME MARKET THAT
IS DRIVEN BY PROFIT.
THAT&apos;S WHAT DRIVES THE MARKET
NOW FEEL GOOD STORIES AND NOT
THINGS FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT.
I MEAN THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S WHERE I
ULTIMATELY DIFFER FROM MANY
OF MY COLLEAGUES.
&gt;&gt; THEY&apos;RE GOING TO BE EXTERNAL
COSTS BEING PLACED ON OTHERS.
PEOPLE WHO HAVE MONEY WILL
CONTINUE TO HAVE THE SAME TYPE
OF LIFESTYLE CAN&apos;T EVER COUNT
NO HAYNER THICKSET HOPEFULLY
I&apos;LL PHRASE THIS THE RIGHT WAY
THAT I CAN GET IT GET THE KIND
OF ANSWER YOU CAN UNDERSTAND
WHERE I&apos;M GETTING AT SO A STATE
LAW ALLOWED US TO CREATE AND
MAINTAIN STANDARDS FOR PARKING
IN THIS CASE PARKING MINIMUMS.
SO ESSENTIALLY WE WERE
REQUIRING DEVELOPERS OR
PROPERTY OWNERS OR TO BUILD A
CERTAIN THING PARKING AT SOME
LEVEL.
SO WHAT IS IT THAT
DIFFERENTIATES OUR REQUIRING
AND NOW WE&apos;RE REMOVING THAT.
WE&apos;RE LOWERING IT.
WE&apos;RE SAYING YOU&apos;RE NOT
REQUIRED TO BUILD PARKING TO A
CERTAIN LEVEL.
&gt;&gt; WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE IN
STATE LAW AND LOCAL LAW THAT
ALLOWS US TO SAY YOU MUST BUILD
A CERTAIN WAY WITH PARKING BUT
WE ARE UNABLE TO SAY YOU MUST
BUILD A NET ZERO BUILDING, YOU
MUST BUILD A CERTAIN
AFFORDABILITY COMPONENT INTO
YOUR BUILDING AND THEN WE HAVE
TO KIND OF DODGE AROUND THE
EDGES OF THINGS AND NOT JUST
COME RIGHT OUT AND SAY THIS IS
WHAT WE NEED AND WE SHOULD WAIT
FOR THE TYPES OF DEVELOPMENTS
THAT ARE GOING TO PROVIDE THAT.
DO YOU UNDERSTAND WHAT I&apos;M
SAYING?
WHY IS THE PARKING ISOLATED
FROM THIS AND JUST ONE OF THE
MANY TOOLS WE HAVE TO HOPEFULLY
GET AT THE ACTUAL POLICY GOALS
THAT WE SHARE?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, IT&apos;S A GOOD QUESTION
AND I DON&apos;T PROFESS TO BE AN
EXPERT IN ALL ASPECTS OF IT BUT
PARKING HAS A LONG HISTORY
OF BEING REALLY CENTRAL TO LAND
USE POLICY COMMUNITIES HAVE
TRADITIONALLY REGULATED PARKING
AS PART OF LAND USE
DEVELOPMENT.
THAT&apos;S SORT OF HOW LAND BE
DEVELOPED.
THAT&apos;S COROLLARY TO THE USES
AND THE LOCATION OF THOSE
THINGS WHEN YOU GET INTO ITEMS
LIKE AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR
BUILDING PERFORMANCE, THERE ARE
OTHER REGULATORY FRAMEWORKS IN
PLACE AT THE STATE THAT GOVERN
THOSE SPECIFICALLY THE PLANNING
AND ZONING ACT ENABLES US TO
GOVERN PARKING.
WE HAVE THINGS LIKE BUILDING
CODES THAT GOVERN BUILDING
PERMITS.
WE HAVE OTHER STATUTES THAT
LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO DICTATE
HOW MUCH SOMEBODY CAN SELL
THEIR HOME OR HOW MUCH
SOMETHING.
AND SO THE SHORT ANSWER IS THAT
COMES FROM DIFFERENT
LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORKS THAT
PROVIDE US WITH THE MUNICIPAL
IN EVERY OTHER MUNICIPALITY IN
THE STATE TO DO SOME THINGS AND
NOT OTHERS.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA THANK
OUR MAYOR.
I&apos;M GOING TO ECHO SOME OF THE
ENTHUSIASM FOR THIS PROPOSAL
THAT THAT I HEARD FROM SOME
OF MY COLLEAGUES EARLIER AND
AND ACTUALLY FROM MANY MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC WHO CALLED INTO
THE PUBLIC HEARING TO DISCUSS
THIS AND ALSO THE THE RESPONSE
UNANIMOUS RESPONSE WE GOT FROM
BOTH PLANNING AND
TRANSPORTATION RECOMMENDING
THIS CHANGE.
I THINK WE&apos;VE OFTEN TALKED
ABOUT PLANNING OR AT LEAST I
HAVE I HAVE TALKED ABOUT WITH
MY NEIGHBORS PLANNING OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS AND OUR COMMUNITY
TO SUPPORT BUSINESSES LIKE
ANALAGOUS OR ARUZ THAT FOLKS
CAN WALK TO THESE WALKABLE,
LIKABLE NEIGHBORHOODS WITH WITH
THINGS NEARBY THAT THAT REALLY
NOT ONLY ENRICH OUR COMMUNITY
BUT BECOME PLACES OF OF
GATHERING AND SERVICE IN
AND
THESE ARE THE TYPES OF CHANGES
THAT ARE NECESSARY IN ORDER FOR
US TO PLAN FOR THAT COMMUNITY
GOING FORWARD.
YOU KNOW, AS WE HEARD FROM ONE
OF THE EXAMPLES DURING THE
PUBLIC HEARING THAT EVERY
BUSINESS OR OR ENTITY MOVING
INTO OUR COMMUNITY REQUIRES A
MASSIVE PARKING LOT TO SUPPORT
IT AND ALLOWING FOR THE
BUSINESS NEEDS OF OF INDIVIDUAL
BUSINESSES TO TO DICTATE
WHETHER OR NOT THEY NEED
ADDITIONAL PARKING IS SOMETHING
THAT NOT ONLY MAKES SENSE BUT
AS COUNCIL MEMBER IHR POINTED
ALLOWS FOR ADDITIONAL POTENTIAL
ECONOMIC DRIVERS TO COME INTO
OUR COMMUNITY AND FILL THAT
SPACE AS OPPOSED TO EMPTY
PARKING SPACES LIKE WE SEE
AROUND BRIARWOOD MALL, FOR
EXAMPLE.
AND SO I THINK THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY ONE OF THE ONE
OF THE OTHER THINGS THAT I
THINK WE OFTEN HEAR ABOUT AS WE
MAKE PLANNING DECISIONS IS THE
THE AMOUNT OF GREEN SPACE AND
AND AND TREES AND THINGS LIKE
THAT THAT WE LOVE IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
BUT AS WE CONTINUE TO FILL
THOSE SPACES, THOSE GREEN
SPACES WITH MORE AND MORE
CONCRETE AND CONTINUE TO SPRAWL
OUT INTO NEIGHBORING TOWNSHIPS
BECAUSE WE&apos;VE FILLED SPACE WITH
PARKING LOTS, I DON&apos;T THINK
THAT&apos;S THE COMMUNITY THAT I
ENVISION.
I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S THE
COMMUNITY THAT OUR NEIGHBORS
ENVISION THAT THAT SUPPORTS
KIND OF THAT WALKABLE VIABLE
LIFESTYLE THAT THAT WE&apos;RE
HOPING TO CREATE HERE.
&gt;&gt; AND SO LIKE COUNCIL MEMBER
IRA, I THINK WE NEED TO KEEP
OUR EYES ON THE FINANCING ISSUE
AND LEARN AS WE MOVE FORWARD
BECAUSE THAT IS SOMETHING I
HAVE REGULARLY HEARD AS WELL
THAT UNFORTUNATELY WHILE WE MAY
BE SAYING HERE TODAY THAT
GOVERNMENT IS NOT GOING TO
DICTATE TO YOU HOW MANY PARKING
SPACES YOU NEED TO SUPPORT YOUR
YOUR BUSINESS IN MANY CASES
THERE ARE FINANCING
INSTITUTIONS WHO ARE STILL
DOING THAT AND SO MAKING SURE
THAT THAT AS WE CONSIDER THIS
GOING FORWARD WE KEEP OUR EYE
ON THAT AS AN IMPORTANT POINT.
&gt;&gt; WELL MADE COUNCIL MEMBER
GRANT, THANK YOU.
COUNCIL FOR DENHA SMOKLER ABOUT
WHAT I WANTED TO DO WITH OUR
LOCAL BUSINESSES.
BUT I&apos;VE HEARD DIRECTLY FROM
SOME OF THE BUSINESSES IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD THERE ENTHUSIASM
FOR US GETTING RID OF PARKING
MINIMUMS AND IF WE DO WANT 20
IT NEIGHBORHOODS THEN IT&apos;S
SOMETHING WE HAVE TO DO AND I
THINK IT IS IMPORTANT EVEN IF
YOU JUST DO A QUICK SEARCH FOR
PARKING MINIMUMS MAP OR
ELIMINATE PARKING MINIMUMS MAP,
YOU&apos;LL SEE THAT THIS IS NOT
SOMETHING EXCLUSIVE TO TO THE
COASTS.
IT&apos;S NOT SOMETHING THAT&apos;S
EXCLUSIVE TO PLACES THAT JUST
HAVE, YOU KNOW, WARM WEATHER.
THIS IS REALLY SOMETHING WE&apos;RE
REALLY BEHIND AS A COMMUNITY
AND WE&apos;RE JUST TRYING TO KEEP
UP WITH BEST PRACTICE SO ALMOST
EVERY STATE IN THE COUNTRY HAS
AT LEAST A CITY WITH ELEVATED
PARKING MINIMUMS IF THEY CAN DO
IT IN NORTH DAKOTA WE CAN
CERTAINLY DO IT HERE.
SO YOU KNOW, I THINK IT&apos;S IT&apos;S
IMPORTANT THAT AND I WILL YOU
KNOW, I THINK SOME OF MY
COLLEAGUES I THINK I&apos;M A FAIRLY
PRAGMATIC PERSON BUT SOMETIMES
THEY REALLY MAKE ME FEEL LIKE I
DON&apos;T KNOW, RADICAL OPTIMIST OR
SOMETHING.
&gt;&gt; BUT IT IT REALLY I&apos;M JUST SO
EXCITED ABOUT THIS.
THIS WAS DEFINITELY ON ON MY
LIST OF THINGS THAT THAT I
THINK THE COMMUNITY REALLY
WANTED TO SEE THAT I WANTED TO
GET DONE BEFORE MY TIME WAS
DONE ON COUNCIL AND I DO THINK
IT&apos;S LOW HANGING FRUIT.
I&apos;M LOOKING FORWARD TO WHAT THE
NEXT STEPS ARE AS WE MOVE INTO
OUR COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER GRISWOLD YEAH, I HOPE
THAT WE CAN MOVE BEYOND PARKING
BECAUSE WHEN I TALK TO MIKE
CONSTITUENTS NINETY NINE
PERCENT OF THEM DO NOT BRING UP
PARKING ONE WAY OR THE OTHER.
JUST LET THE MARKET DRIVE
PARKING.
WE DON&apos;T NEED TO BE DISCUSSING
IT AND WE&apos;VE PAID FOR A
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLANNING
PROCESS.
IT&apos;S REQUIRE IT BY THE STATE.
I THINK THAT WE SHOULD MOVE
FORWARD WITH.
BUT OUR RESPONSIBILITY AS A
LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY IS
SAFETY SAFETY SERVICES, POLICE
AND FIRE SAFE WATER, SAFE
TRANSPORT.
WE NEED ROADS THAT ARE SAFE
CROSSWALKS AND WHEN WE HAVE
THIS FIXATION ON PARKING AND
THOSE OTHER SAFETY SERVICES ARE
ARE SUFFERING.
SO I WILL BE SUPPORTING THIS
AND I HOPE WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO
TALK ABOUT PARKING AGAIN UNTIL
WE DISCUSS THE COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN COUNCIL.
NO, I&apos;M SORRY BUT THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT TO CLEAR UP A
LITTLE BIT OF MY POSITION HERE
AND IT&apos;S NOT THAT I&apos;M AGAINST
THIS UM, IT&apos;S THAT THE PROCESS
THAT WE&apos;RE UNDERTAKING TO DO IT
AND I DON&apos;T THINK GIVES US THE
BEST RESULT YIELDS US THE BEST
OUTCOME FOR THE POLICY GOALS
THAT WE HAVE THAT THAT&apos;S MY
PROBLEM WITH IT.
I&apos;LL BE SUPPORTING IT TONIGHT
BUT I THINK IT&apos;S GOING TO HAVE
A LOT OF UNINTENDED
CONSEQUENCES.
IT COULD HAVE BEEN AVOIDED.
IT PROBABLY COULD HAVE HAD
BETTER OUTCOMES TO ACHIEVE A
TWO ZERO GOALS OR VISION ZERO.
I THINK WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE
EXTERNAL COSTS BE IN PLACE AND
OTHERS WHO DON&apos;T EXPERIENCE IT
TODAY.
YOU&apos;RE OBVIOUSLY GOING TO NEED
GREATER NEED FOR A RESIDENTIAL
PARKING PERMIT.
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO NEED TO BE
PAYING FOR THOSE IN ADDITION TO
EVERYTHING THEY PAY FOR LIVING
IN THE CITY AND SO THAT&apos;S FINE.
UM, THE COST OF OWNING THE CAR
IS GOING TO GO UP UH AND THEN I
GUESS AGAIN WANTED TO CLEAR THE
FACT THAT I DO SUPPORT THIS.
I JUST WISH THAT WE WERE DOING
IT IN A MORE COMPREHENSIVE AND
HOLISTIC WAY.
THANK COUNCIL FOR SOL.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M A FAN OF THE PROFIT
STRONG TOWNS.
IT&apos;S AN ORGANIZATION THAT
ADVOCATES FOR CITIES OF ALL
SIZES TO BE SAFE, LIVABLE AND
INVITING BY PROMOTING PATTERNS
OF DEVELOPMENT THAT ARE
FINANCIALLY STRONG AND
RESILIENT.
YOU&apos;LL FIND IN THEIR SITE
ARTICLES ON PARKING REFORM
INCLUDING ONE TITLED LESS
PARKING LOTS MORE PEOPLE SPACE
WHICH IS THE SENTIMENT THAT I
SHARE IN SUPPORT OF THIS
ORDINANCE CHANGE.
THERE&apos;S ALSO A NATIONAL MAP
TRACKING CITIES THAT HAVE
ELIMINATED PARKING MINIMUMS
WHICH IN MICHIGAN OR TRAVERSE
CITY, GRAND RAPIDS, LANSING,
DETROIT VARIANCE BRINGS AN E
COURSE.
&gt;&gt; I ALSO NOTED THAT SOUTH BEND
JUST OVER THE MICHIGAN BORDER
HAS ALSO ELIMINATED PARKING
MINIMUMS I&apos;D BE DELIGHTED TO
SHARE WITH SECRETARY
OF TRANSPORTATION BUDGET
FORMERLY KNOWN AS MARAPE.
THE NRA HAS BEEN ADDED TO THIS
MAP.
WE WILL JOIN OVER 200 CITIES
HAVE OREGON THAT HAVE ALREADY
GONE DOWN THIS PATH IF WE ARE
SEARCHING FOR EXAMPLES I WOULD
ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO LOOK AT
FAYETTEVILLE, ARKANSAS, ONE
OF THE FIRST CITIES TO
ELIMINATE PARKING MINIMUMS IN
THIS COUNTRY WITH A RATIONALE
THAT THEY ARE AN OVERREACH
OF GOVERNMENT THAT HARMS LOCAL
BUSINESSES, SMALL SCALE
DEVELOPERS, HOMEOWNERS AND
RENTERS SINCE ITS PASSAGE, BILL
HAS SEEN AN INCREASE OF NEW
RESTAURANTS OPENING VACANT LOTS
GETTING FILLED AND CITY STAFF
HAVING A MUCH QUICKER PROCESS
TO APPROVE NEW PERMITS FOR
DEVELOPMENT AND BUSINESS
STARTUPS.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD LIKE TO SEE SOME
IMPROVEMENTS HERE IN ANN ARBOR
.
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS.
I&apos;M NOT GOING TO TALK ABOUT HOW
FANTASTIC THIS IS AGAIN.
HOWEVER, I DID WANT TO ADDRESS
A POINT.
IT&apos;S COME UP A COUPLE OF TIMES
ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT THIS IS AN
APPROPRIATE PROCESS TO USE AND
I THINK I&apos;VE HEARD IT A NUMBER
OF TIMES COME UP AT THE TABLE
THAT YOU KNOW, WE NEED TO WAIT
UNTIL THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN STARTS AND THAT&apos;S
THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S WHEN WE SHOULD DO
THESE THINGS.
AND I I THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT TO
STRESS IT&apos;S NOT LIKE WE BEGIN
THAT PROCESS AND THROW OUT
THROW OUT EVERYTHING THAT WE&apos;VE
DONE TO DATE THE COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN IS A COMPILATION
OF MANY, MANY DOCUMENTS
INCLUDING THE TRANSPORTATION
PLAN INCLUDING
CARBON NEUTRALITY PLAN WHICH
ARE CALLING FOR THESE ARE
RECENT PLANNING EFFORTS THAT
WE&apos;VE DONE THAT WE ARE MOVING
FORWARD WITH IN A TIMELY
FASHION.
THERE&apos;S ALSO STAFF AND IN THE
MEMO HAS POINTED TO THE FACT
THAT THIS IS ALREADY PART
OF OUR MASTER PLAN IN THE LAND
USE ELEMENT WHICH IS SOMETHING
HAS NOTED AROUND THE TABLE THAT
IT&apos;S BEEN QUITE A WHILE SINCE
WE&apos;VE WE&apos;VE DONE THAT PLAN.
WE ARE THIS IS OVERDUE.
WE&apos;RE NOT AHEAD OF SCHEDULE.
IT&apos;S NOT OUTSIDE OF PROCESS.
IT IS IT IS UTILIZING THE
PROCESS AND AS WE MOVE FORWARD
IN THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IN
THE NEXT PLAN WHICH IS WHICH IS
GREAT, WE DEFINITELY NEED TO
GET ON UNDERWAY.
IT WILL START WE DID I WAS PART
OF THAT THE GROUP IN TWENTY
NINETEEN BROUGHT YOU KNOW ON
PLANNING COMMISSION AND SAID
SOMETHING TO COUNCIL AND IT WAS
IT WAS TABLED HERE AT THIS AT
THE AT THIS TABLE SO WE
DEFINITELY NEED TO GET IT
STARTED BUT IT&apos;S IT&apos;S GOING TO
BE BUILDING ON WHAT WE&apos;VE DONE
IN THE PAST FOR THE DISCUSSION
WE&apos;RE PLEASE START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER BRIGS
MARGARETS.
YES AMAWI YES THAT&apos;S MY HAYNER.
NO, THAT&apos;S DISH.
YES, THAT&apos;S MY GRISWOLD.
YES.
CONTROVERSAL YES.
COUNTERPROGRAM YES.
BECAUSE WE&apos;RE A DENHA.
YES.
MURTALA YES.
&gt;&gt; MARIAH YES.
SCOTTSBURG NELSON YES.
SHIKARI SEE ONE IN NORDEN&apos;S TO
BEND CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE ZONING
REZONING OF ONE FIVE ACRES FROM
C ONE BIG COMMUNITY CONVENIENCE
CENTER DISTRICT PUDI PLANNED
UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT THREE
FOUR ZERO DIPO ZONING AND
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS THREE
FOUR ZERO DIPA MOVE BY COUNTY
AND BRITISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HAYNER DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF C ONE COUNCIL MEMBER DISH SO
THIS IS A PUDI PROPOSED ZONING
FOR THREE FORTY DIPO STREET.
IT WILL BE A MIXED USE
DEVELOPMENT ACROSS FROM THE
AMTRAK STATION AND EAST OF THE
GARNET SO IT&apos;S A PUDI.
WHAT ARE ITS PUBLIC BENEFITS
?
THIS IS AN INFILL PROJECT YAY
IT IS AS I SAID MIXED USE.
THERE WILL BE MIXED USE
OF MINIMUM THIRTEEN HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET.
IT WILL PROVIDE SMALL
RELATIVELY I&apos;M SORRY FOR
RELATIVELY SMALL RESIDENTIAL
UNITS WHICH HELPS TO FILL A
NEED FOR DIVERSE HOUSING STOCK.
THERE WILL BE TWO THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET MINIMUM OF A GREEN
ROOF AND WE EXPECT CLEAN UP
OF CONTAMINATED SOIL BECAUSE WE
THINK THAT THERE IS SOME
UNDERNEATH THE EXISTING
STRUCTURE.
WHY IS IT COME TO US AS A PUDI?
THE REASON IS THAT THE
DEVELOPER IS MAKING A REQUEST
FOR A VERY SMALL DEVIATION FROM
CODE AND THAT IS TO BE RELEASED
FOR FROM THE CONFLICTING USE
BUFFER THAT IS REQUIRED FOR THE
EAST AND SOUTH SIDES OF THE
PARCEL AND THE IT&apos;S I DON&apos;T
WANT TO PUT THIS IN A
STRUGGLING FOR WORDS BECAUSE I
DON&apos;T WANT TO PUT THIS IN A WAY
THAT SOUNDS LIKE I&apos;M SLAMMING
ANYONE BUT ESSENTIALLY ONCE THE
GARNET WAS APPROVED ON THE
NEIGHBORING PARCEL THAT
TRIGGERED THIS RESIDENTIAL USE
BUFFER, THE GARNET ITSELF IS
BUILT TO THE PROPERTY LINE AND
SO THIS PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT IS
ASKING FOR THE SAME THING THAT
THE GARNET WAS ABLE TO TAKE TO
MAKE USE OF AND YOU IF I
MANGLED THAT HORRIBLY MR.
LEONARD IS HERE.
I WANT TO JUST OFFER I KNOW
THAT YOU&apos;RE ALL NOTICING THAT
GEE, THIS IS A PAUDIE AND IT
COMES TO US FROM PLANNING
COMMISSION WHICH CAN GO FOR TWO
HOURS ON A ON A BUY RIGHT PLAN
ASKING A DEVELOPER WHY THEY
AREN&apos;T ELECTRIFYING AND
COULDN&apos;T THEY PLEASE LOOK INTO
HEAT PUMPS AND EVERYTHING ELSE
AND WHY DOES THIS COME TO US
WITHOUT ELECTRICITY?
BECAUSE HERE&apos;S HERE&apos;S A PLACE
IT&apos;S A REZONING WE CAN WE CAN
ASK FOR THAT.
WELL, THIS PROJECT CAME TWICE
BEFORE THE PLANNING COMMISSION
BECAUSE THAT&apos;S WHAT HAPPENS.
YOU HAVE A PRE MEETING WITH A
POD PERSON.
WE ASKED FOR MANY CHANGES
REGARDING PEDESTRIAN AMENITIES
AND ACTIVITY THE FIRST FLOOR
WITH RETAIL AND OFFICE SPACE
AND THE PATIO THAT&apos;S ADJACENT
TO THE PUBLIC SIDEWALK.
WE ASKED FOR ALL THAT WE GOT
IT.
THEY ARE NOT ASKING US FOR MUCH
.
THEY ACCOMMODATED MANY GOALS
THAT WE HAVE IT DIDN&apos;T FEEL
THAT ELECTRIFICATION WAS A
PROPORTIONATE REQUEST AS
COMPARED TO WHAT THE DEVELOPER
IS ASKING US FOR SO OR
PROPORTIONATE DEMAND I ADMIT TO
I WANT TO FAIRLY REPRESENT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION&apos;S
DELIBERATIONS BECAUSE I AM PART
OF THE COMMISSION COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; SORRY.
YEP THAT&apos;S GOOD.
COUNCIL MEMBER HERE.
WELL THANKS MR. MAYOR.
I CAN&apos;T TAKE UP WHERE YOU&apos;RE
GOING BECAUSE I WASN&apos;T PART
OF THOSE BUT I KNOW WHEN THE
GOVERNMENT WAS IN ITS FORMATIVE
STAGES MR. FAF WENT TO THE
OWNER OF THAT PROPERTY AND THE
DEVELOPER IS THAT PROPERTY AND
HAS TO COMBINE THE TWO LOTS
INTO ONE BODY TO GET SOMETHING
GREATER THAN THE TWO TO BEING
DEVELOPED SEPARATELY AND THAT
DIDN&apos;T HAPPEN UNFORTUNATELY.
AND JUST AS FAR AS A JOKE I
TOLD THEM BUILD YOUR THING AS
HIGH AS YOU POSSIBLY CAN SO
THAT THOSE PEOPLE CAN&apos;T SEE THE
RIVER AND WE WERE KIND
OF JOKING ABOUT IT AND HE
DIDN&apos;T WANT TO DO THAT BECAUSE
HE&apos;S A DECENT MAN WHO IS TRYING
TO BUILD SOMETHING THAT&apos;S
MODEST ON THIS SITE THAT HE HAS
A LONG HISTORY OF PROVIDING
VERY MODEST RENTS FOR THE
TENANTS OF THOSE CURRENT OFFICE
SPACES FOR DECADES NOW.
AND SO THIS IS WHAT HE WANTED
TO BUILD AND IT WAS UNFORTUNATE
AS COUNCILMAN DID SAID THAT THE
THE GARNET PD GOT RIGHT TO THE
EDGE.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I THINK THIS IS A
REASONABLE REQUEST AND I THINK
IT&apos;S A REASONABLE COMPROMISE
BECAUSE OF THE AFFORDABILITY
THAT&apos;S GOING TO COME FROM THESE
SMALLER UNITS UNLIKE THE
SMALLER UNITS ON BROADWAY THAT
ARE VERY EXPENSIVE.
I DON&apos;T BELIEVE THESE ARE GOING
TO BE I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT IT SAYS
IN THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
BUT I&apos;D BE SHOCKED IF THEY WERE
GOING TO BE VERY EXPENSIVE.
THERE ARE SIX TESTING WELLHEADS
ON THAT SITE IN A YEAR YEAR AND
A HALF AGO MICHIGAN DID A HUGE
AMOUNT OF REMEDIATION
EVERYWHERE BUT WHERE THE
BUILDING STANDS AND I WAS DOWN
THERE TO OBSERVE THAT AND THERE
IS DEFINITELY A NEED TO BRING
THIS UP TO THE RESIDENTIAL
STANDARDS OF EAGLE AND THAT
WILL HAPPEN WITH THIS
DEVELOPMENT.
AND I KNOW THAT THAT WAS ONE
THING THAT HE&apos;S THE DEVELOPERS
ARE VERY CONCERNED ABOUT IS
SITTING ON THIS POLLUTED SITE.
AND SO THIS IS THIS IS A WIN IN
MANY WAYS FOR THE FOR THE CITY
IN AN ACTIVE YOU KNOW,
TRANSPORTATION AREA RIGHT
ACROSS FROM THE TRAIN STATION
AND SO ON AND REALLY VERY NEAR
DOWNTOWN ON SEVERAL BUS LINES
AND SO ON AND IT&apos;S THE RIGHT
THING TO DO AND IT&apos;S ANOTHER
EXAMPLE OF HOW PD SHOULD REMAIN
IN OUR TOOLBOX AS A VIABLE
METHOD OF GETTING, YOU KNOW,
REASONABLE PUBLIC COMPROMISES
OUT OF PROJECTS.
&gt;&gt; SO I FULLY SUPPORT THIS PART
OF DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD, THIS IS
MIXED-USE SO I&apos;M JUST WONDERING
WHAT ACTION WOULD BE NEEDED IF
THEY DECIDED AFTER WAS BUILT TO
CONVERT THE COMMERCIAL TO
RESIDENTIAL QUALITY CITY
PLANNER FOR A PROJECT.
I CAN DEFINITELY ANSWER THAT
QUESTION THAT THE REQUIREMENT
FOR THE MIXED USE IS BUILT
DIRECTLY INTO THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS, YOU KNOW FOR THE
FIRST FLOOR.
SO BASICALLY AS PART OF THE
ZONING REGULATIONS, IF THAT
FIRST FLOOR IF THEY WANTED TO
GET AWAY FROM THOSE USES THAT
ARE REQUIRED IN THE
OPTIMIZATION, IT THAT BY
REZONING THEY WOULD HAVE TO
COME BACK TO CITY COUNCIL TO
CHANGE WHAT THE ALLOWABLE USES
ARE WITHIN THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS.
OK, THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED.
IT IS APPROVED
.
DO YOU SEE ONE RESOLUTION TO
APPOINT ERIC FARRELL TO THE
PUBLIC MARKET ADVISORY
COMMISSION MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER?
I ASK ABOUT COUNCIL FOR
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE ON
FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED.
ELEVEN COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
SATISFYING THE SEVEN VOTE
REQUIREMENT DC TWO RESOLUTION
TO AUTHORIZE THE ADMINISTRATOR
TO EXECUTE A LETTER TO THE
MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT
OF TRANSPORTATION.
I&apos;M NOT IN SUPPORT OF A NOISE
ABATEMENT PROGRAM AN
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDY
OF NOISE FOR M FOURTEEN MOVE BY
COUNCILMAN ROLLAWAY SECOND BY
COUNCILOR DISH DISCUSSED PALMY
BRIGGS DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC
TWO COUNCIL MEMBER RAMOGI I
THANK YOU UM THIS IS AN ISSUE
THAT HAS BEEN GROWING IN THE
FIFTH WARD FOR MANY YEARS.
THE NOISE THAT IS COMING OFF
THE FREEWAY AND INTO THE
SURROUNDING AREAS INCLUDING A
SCHOOL AND AND OUR PARK HILLS
WINZ AND FORSIGHT IN THE
SCHOOLS THAT ARE AFFECTED BY
THIS.
THIS IS UM WAS ORIGINALLY
DISCOVERED MANY YEARS AGO AND
AND HAS REPORTEDLY PUBLICLY
ADMITTED THAT THIS WAS A DESIGN
FLAW IN THE FREEWAY WAS FIRST
BUILT IN THE SEVENTIES BUT THE
NOISE HAS GOTTEN WORSE WITH
RECENT WORK THAT&apos;S BEEN DONE ON
THE FREEWAY WITH CONCRETE
REPLACEMENT AND AS AS YOU&apos;RE
WALKING THE NEIGHBORHOODS IN
THE AREA AND THE CRESCENT&apos;S AND
OTHER AREAS, YOU CAN HEAR THE
SOUND WELL OVER A THOUSAND FEET
AWAY.
YOU KNOW, IF THE WIND IS
BLOWING RIGHT, YOU HAVE YOU
KNOW, SERIOUS SERIOUS ISSUES.
I MEAN HOW THE HEALTH ISSUES
THERE WAS A PETITION
NEIGHBORHOOD PUT TOGETHER IT
OVER SIX HUNDRED SIGNATURES
ASKING FOR INTERVENTION AND
ASKING FOR HELP HERE THERE&apos;S
BEEN MANY MEETINGS WITH STATE
SENATOR JEFF ERWIN IN MEETINGS
WITH SCHOOL BOARD SCHOOL
MEMBERS, STAFF MYSELF AND
COUNCIL MEMBER RIGS HAVE BEEN
IN MEETINGS AND WE&apos;VE JUST HIT
A LOT
DEAD ENDS UP GETTING THIS
ADDRESSED SO SO THE RESIDENTS
OF THE FIFTH WARD AND ASKED ME
AND COUNCILMAN BRIGGS TO DO
MORE AND TO RAISE THEIR VOICE
AND BRING THIS CONCERN UM TO TO
THE FOREFRONT AS MUCH AS
POSSIBLE JUST LIKE WE DID WITH
THE CASE OF THE FOURTEEN IN
RESOLUTION UH, ABOUT A YEAR AGO
WHEN WE&apos;VE HAD MAJOR UM
ACCIDENTS AND FATALITIES AND
ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE, WE&apos;RE
ASKING THAT OUR CITY
ADMINISTRATOR WRITE A LETTER TO
HIM THAT UM LOOKING INTO NOISE
ABATEMENT PROGRAMS.
UM, BUT WE&apos;RE ASKING THAT THIS
DOESN&apos;T OR AT LEAST I AM THAT
THIS DOESN&apos;T STOP WITH THIS
LETTER THAT THIS BOARD THIS
BODY IN THIS COMMUNITY CONTINUE
TO ADVOCATE TO MITIGATE THE
ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION AND THE
NOISE AND THE HEALTH CONCERNS
THAT RESIDENTS HAVE IN THAT
AREA.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
ALCIVAR BREAKS YEAH.
I JUST I CONCUR WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER ROLLAWAY.
THIS IS AN ONGOING ISSUE THAT
WE ARE WE&apos;RE CERTAINLY HEARING
LOUDLY FROM
OUR FIFTH WARD
RESIDENTS THAT I KNOW IT&apos;S ALSO
AN ISSUE IN THE FIRST WARD AS
WELL BECAUSE REMEMBER I&apos;M
ALWAYS SPOKE OF YOU PROBABLY
REMEMBER YOU CAN CERTAINLY FIND
IN YOUR EMAIL INBOX THE
PETITION THAT WAS SENT TO US
WITH CLOSE TO SIX HUNDRED
SIGNATURES ON RESIDENTS HAVE
DONE NOISE STUDIES.
WELL, NOISE READINGS I SHOULD
SAY ADJACENT TO A HIGHWAY ON
THE FORSYTH AND ONE SCHOOL AND
TEN DECIBELS ONE HUNDRED ONE
HUNDRED DECIBELS THERE.
THIS IS IT&apos;S A CHALLENGING
ISSUE TO FOR US TO TO SOLVE AT
THE LOCAL LEVEL HONESTLY IT&apos;S A
CHALLENGING ISSUE FOR THE STATE
AND TO SOLVE AS WELL
CONSIDERING THE FUNDING THAT&apos;S
BEEN CUT FOR THE NOISE
ABATEMENT PROGRAM AND BOTH AT
THE STATE AND FEDERAL LEVEL.
BUT I THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT THAT
WE AS A CITY, YOU KNOW, WRITE A
LETTER OF SUPPORT FOR THE NOISE
OF NOISE ABATEMENT PROGRAM, AN
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STUDY IN
THIS AREA.
COUNCIL MEMBER HERE.
YEAH, THANKS, MR. MAYOR.
FOR OBVIOUSLY I SUPPORT THIS I
I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT THE SOLUTION
IS GOING TO BE.
I&apos;M GOING TO ASK TO BE ADDED AS
A CO-SPONSOR YOU KNOW FURTHER
REPRESENT WARD ONE.
I HAVE NO DOUBT THAT ERM THAT
WILL TACKLE THIS WITH THE SAME
SPEED THAT THEY HAVE IN THE
BURN EXCHANGE DESIGN FLAWS AND
YET IT IS RIGHT AND PROPER TO
ASK AND SO USED TO BE I MEAN
YOU CAN KIND OF HEAR IT FROM MY
HOUSE I DON&apos;T KNOW MODISH IF
YOU CAN HEAR THAT YOU PROBABLY
CAN FROM YOUR PLACE YOU HAVE A
LITTLE WE HAVE A LITTLE
TOPOGRAPHICAL VARIANCE BETWEEN
OUR HOUSES BUT HIGHER UP I
THINK IT&apos;S PROBABLY A LITTLE
LOUDER.
WE USED TO HEAR WITH QUITE
WEIRD REGULARITY THE TESTING
SALES AT LOTUS ENGINEERING
THERE AND NOW ALL I HEAR IS THE
MARIJUANA GROWING IN THEIR AND
SO THAT&apos;S A RELIEF.
YOU KNOW, WE USED TO HEAR THE
TRUCKS WINDING UP AT NIGHT AND
THEN WINDING DOWN ON THE DYNO
AS YOU COULD HEAR IT OUT THE
ROOF VENTS.
IT WAS CRAZY OUT AND WE DIDN&apos;T
REALLY HAVE ANY THING WE COULD
DO ABOUT THAT.
BUT THERE IS SOMETHING WE COULD
DO ABOUT THIS WEEKS AND ASK
THEM TO LOOK INTO IT AND
HOPEFULLY THE STUDY WILL
JUSTIFY SOME KIND OF REMEDIAL
ACTION.
AGAIN, I DON&apos;T KNOW WHAT IT&apos;S
GOING TO BE AND IT&apos;LL PROBABLY
BE A PRETTY LOW PRIORITY FOR
THEM AND YET THIS IS THE RIGHT
THING TO DO.
SO THANK YOU FOR PUTTING THIS
TOGETHER AND I FULLY SUPPORT IT
FURTHER DISCUSSION, COUNCILMAN
GRISWOLD, I&apos;D LIKE TO BE LISTED
AS A COSPAR SIR AND JUST
CONFIRM THAT OUR ELECTED STATE
OFFICIALS SENATOR ERWIN AND
REPRESENTATIVE USIP RABIE WILL
BE COPIED ON THIS AND THAT IS A
PRETTY POLITICAL ENTITY AND IT
TOOK CONSIDERABLE EFFORT FROM
SENATOR JEFF ERWIN TO KEEP THE
THAT PROJECT TO INSTALL THE RFD
ON CURAN AT THE DANGEROUS
CROSSWALK NEAR FAIR AND SO IT
WOULD NOT HAVE HAPPENED EVEN
THOUGH IT TOOK MANY YEARS IN
THAT TIME FRAME HAD IT NOT BEEN
FOR SENATOR IRWIN CONTINUING TO
SHEPHERD THE PROJECT.
SO I HOPE YOU&apos;RE GOING TO RELY
ON HIM AND I&apos;M NOT SURE IF HE
IS GOING TO BE REDISTRICTED OUT
OF THAT AREA AND SO IT WOULD BE
SENATOR WELL, WHOEVER THE
SENATOR IS WHO WHO&apos;S ELECTED
BUT I WOULD DEFINITELY INCLUDE
SENATOR JEFF IRWIN AT THIS
POINT.
&gt;&gt; THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; I GUESS I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO
BE LISTED AS A CO-SPONSOR TO
THIS.
YOU KNOW, WE TALK WITH
RESIDENTS THROUGHOUT THE CITY
AND I CERTAINLY DO AS WELL AND
FOLKS UP IN THIS AREA
CONSISTENTLY MENTION NOISE AS
AN IMPEDIMENT TO THEIR QUALITY
OF LIFE.
IT&apos;S NOT SOMETHING THAT WE AS A
CITY HAVE AN ABILITY TO ADDRESS
ON OUR OWN BUT WE DO HAVE THE
ABILITY TO TO ADVOCATE AND
THROUGH THIS MEASURE AND
THROUGH OTHERS I HOPE AS WELL
WE WILL IT IS IMPORTANT THAT
THAT TAKE NOTICE OF THE HARM
THAT&apos;S BEING CAUSED BY THE
CURRENT NOISE SITUATION AND
THAT THEY TAKE EFFORTS OUT
OF THAT THEY TAKE STEPS TO TO
REMEDIATE FURTHER DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER AMAWI, THANK
YOU.
I APPRECIATE MY COLLEAGUES
COMING ON BOARD AND
COSPONSORING THIS UM GIVES ME
HOPE THAT THIS ISSUE WILL
CONTINUE TO BE ADDRESSED IN THE
YEARS FOLLOWING.
AS WE&apos;VE HEARD THIS HAS BEEN
GOING ON FOR A LONG TIME AND
THAT HAS DRAGGED THEIR FEET IN
THIS TYPE OF INFRASTRUCTURE
IMPROVEMENT IS NOT ON THE TOP
OF THEIR LIST.
UNFORTUNATELY.
BUT I BELIEVE THAT CAN CHANGE
AND THAT WILL CHANGE AND THAT
WE NEED TO BE THERE WHEN THE
OPPORTUNITY ARISES AND AGAIN TO
WORK WITH OUR STATE
REPRESENTATIVES WHO HAVE THE
INFLUENCE NECESSARY TO GET THIS
OVER WITH THE GOAL POST OR AT
THE GOAL LINE.
BUT I&apos;M HOPEFUL THAT IT&apos;S GOING
TO GO SOMEWHERE.
UM, AND UH I APPRECIATE UM UH
BECAUSE UH PEOPLE MY COLLEAGUES
COMING ON AND COSPONSORING IT
GIVES ME HOPE THAT THIS WILL
HAVE LEGS GOING FORWARD.
PART OF THE DISCUSSION ON
FAVORITE POST TO PROVE THREE
RESOLUTION APPROVED GRANTS
OF HAS BEEN FOR GAS PIPELINE TO
DTG COMPANY AT VIRGINIA PARK
VETERANS PARK MOVI COUNCIL
REDISH SECONDED I
COUNTERPROGRAM DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DC THREE COUNCIL
MEMBER MOLLY UM I&apos;LL BE
SUPPORTING THIS BUT I WILL
AGAIN LIKE MOST OFTEN THROW
THROW SOME CAUTION TO THE WIND
.
UM WE&apos;RE ALLOWING DTT TO EXPAND
UM AND INFRASTRUCTURE
OF SUPPLYING NATURAL GAS UM I
JUST DON&apos;T KNOW YOU KNOW MAYBE
IT&apos;S GOING TO TRANSPORT
HYDROGEN AS THEY SAY IN THE
FUTURE OR SOME OTHER SOME OTHER
FUEL SUPPLY BUT IT SEEMS A
LITTLE BIT OF AN OXYMORON TO
APPROVE THIS AND STILL TRY TO
WEAN OURSELVES OFF OF NATURAL
GAS IN FOSSIL FUELS.
UM, WE JUST IT SEEMS RATHER
INCONSISTENT.
UM, BUT MAYBE THERE IS THERE&apos;S
OBVIOUSLY THERE&apos;S A LOT
OF THINGS I DON&apos;T KNOW AND
MAYBE THERE A BETTER USE FOR
THIS IN THE FUTURE FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL WORKERS
GRANT, I THINK I JUST WANT TO
POINT OUT THAT THIS WAS BROUGHT
IN FRONT OF THE PARK ADVISORY
COMMISSION SO THAT THEY WERE
MADE AWARE AND AT LEAST FROM
WHAT I READ IN THE MEMORANDUM
IT LOOKS LIKE IT&apos;S JUST
MAINTENANCE ON THE EXISTING
INFRASTRUCTURE.
SO IF I&apos;M INCORRECT ABOUT THAT,
I ENCOURAGE STAFF TO CORRECT
ME.
BUT I THINK IT&apos;S IT&apos;S JUST
IMPROVING WHAT WHAT ALREADY
EXISTS SO IT DOESN&apos;T FEEL FOR
THE DISCUSSION.
WELL, FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED DC FOR RESOLUTION TO
RECOMMEND DISCUSSION OF RENEW
BY TWO BY CITY COUNCIL MOVE BY
COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC FOR
COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
QUICKLY ON THIS I&apos;M GOING TO BE
TABLING BUT I WANTED TO QUICKLY
INTRODUCE IT.
&gt;&gt; THIS IS A RESOLUTION THERE
WAS SOME EXPECTATION THAT IT
WOULD BE A FIRST READING.
IT IS A RESOLUTION BASED ON
FEEDBACK FROM THE CITY
ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE I I BASED ON
SOME EMAILS THAT WE RECEIVED I
THINK IT&apos;S WORTH POINTING OUT
THIS IS A TOPIC THAT HAS BEEN
UNDER DISCUSSION FOR OVER A
YEAR AND BECAUSE IT WAS A TOPIC
OF DISCUSSION LAST SUMMER UM, I
HAD EXTENSIVE CONVERSATIONS
WITH PEOPLE LIKE JENNIFER HALL
TRYING TO UNDERSTAND THE
POTENTIAL IMPACTS AND
IMPLICATIONS FOR OUR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING UNITS.
THIS I ENCOURAGE EVERYONE TO
LOOK AT THE REGISTRAR LISTING
FOR THIS ITEM.
I WAS ONCE ONCE I WAS ADVISED
THAT THIS COULD NOT ENTER OUR
AGENDA AT FIRST READING IT WAS
SUGGESTED THAT I COULD HAVE IT
ENTER OUR AGENDA AS A
COMMUNICATION.
I DECLINED TO DO THAT BECAUSE I
DID WANT IT TO GET MORE
ATTENTION.
I PARTICULARLY WANT PEOPLE TO
NOTICE THAT THE AMERICAN BAR
ASSOCIATION ACTUALLY PUBLISHED
A DOCUMENT IN FEBRUARY THIS
YEAR RECOMMENDING THIS POLICY
AS ONE OF TEN RECOMMENDATIONS
TO PREVENT EVICTIONS.
THE ONLY OTHER THING THAT I
WOULD LIKE TO COMMENT ON I AM
REALLY EXCITED THAT WE HAVE A
RENTERS COMMISSION CAN WRESTLE
WITH ISSUES LIKE THIS.
THERE WAS SOME DELAY IN PUTTING
THIS ON OUR AGENDA BECAUSE
THERE WAS A HOPE AND
EXPECTATION THAT THIS WAS
SOMETHING THAT COULD BE
DISCUSSED IN A MORE PUBLIC
FORUM IN THE CONTEXT OF A
COMMISSION LAST SUMMER QUITE A
LOT OF CONVERSATIONS WERE
HAPPENING IN SMALL GROUPS AND
ONE ON ONE THERE WERE A HANDFUL
OF PEOPLE WHO WERE AWARE OF HOW
MANY ATTORNEYS IN OUR COMMUNITY
WERE GIVING FEEDBACK, WHAT KIND
OF FEEDBACK WAS HAPPENING BACK
AND FORTH WITH OUR CITY LEGAL
DEPARTMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THIS
TO HAPPEN IN A MORE ABOVEBOARD
WAY AND I MENTIONED THAT
BECAUSE THIS WAS NOT DISCUSSED
IN ANY SUBSTANTIVE WAY, THIS
RIGHT TO RENEW WAS NOT
DISCUSSED IN ANY SUBSTANTIVE
WAY.
THE REENTRIES COMMISSION UNTIL
JULY TWENTY SIXTH AND THE LAST
TIME THAT THE HEALTH AND HUMAN
SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD MET WAS
JULY 14TH.
SO I I WOULD REMIND FOLKS THAT
WHEN WE HAVE BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS THAT ARE ACTUALLY
MAKING RECOMMENDATIONS AND WE
REPORT TO TABLE WHAT THE
DIRECTIVES ARE FROM OUR BOARDS
AND COMMISSIONS THAT WE PAY
ATTENTION TO WHEN THE MEETINGS
ACTUALLY HAPPEN AND THERE ARE
MINUTES AND AGENDAS RELATED TO
THOSE MEETINGS.
SO I AM GOING TO MOVE TO TABLE
THIS AND I AM LOOKING O I WILL
ALSO NEED TO MENTION ABOUT THE
LEGAL DEPARTMENT HAS TOLD US
THAT AT THE LATEST WE ARE GOING
TO GET A LEGAL ON THIS TOPIC ON
AUGUST TWENTY SIXTH AND SO I
HOPE TO SEE THIS APPEAR ON OUR
AGENDA AT FIRST READING AT THE
LATEST THE FIRST MEETING IN
SEPTEMBER.
THANK YOU
.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M MOVING TO TABLE IT IS
THERE A SECOND SECOND BY
COUNCILOR GRISWOLD ROLL-CALL
VOTE I BELIEVE TABLING DOES NOT
REQUIRE OR DOES NOT PROVIDE FOR
DEBATE BUT IT IS AN EIGHT FOOT
ITEM COUNCIL ROLL CALL VOTE
PLEASE STARTING WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER BRAKE&apos;S BERBERICH.
YES BECAUSE WE ARE ALLOWING YES
OF HAYNER.
&gt;&gt; SURE.
YES THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
YES YES.
SMART GRIDS.
WELL YES BECAUSE OUR YES THAT&apos;S
MARGRAF YES THAT&apos;S VERY DENHA.
YES YES.
HIGHER YES COUNCILOR AND ALSO
YES MOTION CARRIES YES.
ONE RESOLUTION AUTHORIZING
SUMMARY PUBLICATION
OF ORDINANCE TO TWELVE AN
ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION FIVE
ONE SIX THREE DUTCHIE FIVE TWO
ZERO THAT ONE ZERO AND FIVE
ABOUT THREE ZERO THAT ONE
OF CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY BANABA
AMENDMENTS TO MARIJUANA
FACILITIES TREES IN THE PUBLIC
RIGHT OF WAY AND LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATIONS MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER GRISWOLD DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF DENHA ONE ON FAVOR
POSED IT&apos;S PROVED TO RESOLUTION
AUTHORIZING SUMMARY PUBLICATION
TWENTY TWO DASH ONE THREE AND
ORDER TO AMEND SECTIONS THAT
ONE SIX ONE EIGHT FIVE THAT ONE
SIX TWO TO A FIVE ONE SIX TWO B
FIVE FIVE ONE SIX THREE FIVE
ONE SIX THREE FIVE ONE SIX FOUR
BEEF ONE SIX SIX TAXI ONE SIX
SIX G AND TO REPEAL AND REPLACE
SECTION FIVE THAT ONE NINE FOR
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF TITLE FIVE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY ARE
REMOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER FOR
DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF TO
ALL IN FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; DO WE HAVE A CLOSED SESSION
TODAY WE DO NOT MAYOR WE HAVE
BEFORE US THE CLERKS ARE PART
OF COMMUNICATIONS PETITIONS AND
REFERRALS.
WE HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE
SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS DISCUSSION ON FAVOR
OPPOSED IT IS THE CROOK&apos;S
REPORT IS APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS FROM OUR
CITY FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY
THERE COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVING
WE HAVE BEFORE US NOW PUBLIC
COMMENT, GENERAL TIME, PUBLIC
COMMENT.
GENERAL TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT GENERAL TIME
ONE NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE SPEAKERS OF THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTI
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS
ARE REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR.
IS THERE ANYONE WHO LIKE TO
SPEAK AT PUBLIC COMMENT
?
&gt;&gt; MAYOR, WE DO HAVE A CALLER
THOUGH
RAHMAN.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD.
HELLO.
I JUST WANT TO TALK ABOUT WAS
AGAIN I HAD A LITTLE QUOTE THAT
I WANTED TO READ FROM ENRIQUE
PENALOSA AND HE WAS THE MAYOR
OF BOGOTA, COLOMBIA AND HE DID
A LOT OF REALLY GREAT THINGS TO
BOGOTA.
HE IMPLEMENTED THEIR FIRST BRT
SYSTEM.
HE DID A LOT OF THINGS WITH
BIKE LANES AND MAINLY POSITIVE
URBANIZING.
HE CREATED A WHOLE BLAKLEY
NETWORK TO HELP PEOPLE WHO
COULDN&apos;T AFFORD A CAR GET IN
THE CITY AND THERE&apos;S A REALLY
GREAT QUOTE THAT THAT HE HE
SAID THAT I HEARD HIM SAY IN A
MOVIE WHICH IS MANY THINK SO HE
STARTS MANY THINGS ABOUT CITIES
ARE VERY COUNTERINTUITIVE.
FOR EXAMPLE, IT SEEMS TO US
MAKING BIGGER ROADS OR FLYOVERS
OR ELEVATED HIGHWAYS WILL SOLVE
TRAFFIC JAMS AND HOULLIER HAS
NEVER BEEN THE CASE BECAUSE
WHAT CREATES TRAFFIC IS ON THE
NUMBER OF CARS WITH THE NUMBER
OF TROOPS AND THE LENGTH TRIPS
TO THE MORE ORDINARY STRUCTURE
YOU DO THE TRAFFIC WOULD BECOME
EVEN WORSE.
THE ONLY WAY TO SOLVE TRAFFIC
JAMS IS TO RESTRICT CAR USE IN
THE MOST OBVIOUSLY RESTRICTING
CAR USE IS RESTRICTING PARKING
PEOPLE TO IMAGINE THAT PARKING
IS A RIGHT ALMOST A FUNDAMENTAL
RIGHT TO BE INCLUDED IN THE
UNITED NATIONS CHARTER IN OUR
CONSTITUTION THERE ARE MANY
RIGHTS THE RIGHT TO HOUSING,
THE RIGHT TO EDUCATION, THE
RIGHT TO HELP.
BUT I DON&apos;T FIND THE RIGHT
DEPARTMENT.
I DON&apos;T SEE ANY CONSTITUTION
WHICH INCLUDES THE RIGHT TO
PARK.
SO IF YOU ASK ME WHERE YOU
SHOULD PARK, THE MAYOR CAN TELL
THEM IT&apos;S ALMOST AS IF YOU ASK
ME WHERE YOU SHOULD PUT YOUR
FOOD OR YOUR CLOTHES.
THIS IS NOT A GOVERNMENT
PROBLEM AND I THINK THIS QUOTE
IS PRETTY GOOD BECAUSE IT GETS
TO THE POINT OF PARTY WHERE
SHOULD I YOU PARK YOUR CAR.
THIS IS NOT A GOVERNMENT
PROBLEM.
IT&apos;S YOUR PROBLEM AND THE MORE
WE BUILD INFRASTRUCTURE TO
SUPPORT CARS AND THEN WE WHINE
ABOUT TRAFFIC CARS LIGHTING UP
OUR STREET, IT&apos;S A IT&apos;S A SELF
IT&apos;S A SELF PUNISHING CYCLE AND
THE ISSUES THAT WE HAVE WITH
CARS AND WITH TRAFFIC AND WITH
PARTY THEY&apos;RE ALL BROUGHT UPON
OURSELVES.
WE VOLUNTARILY GET WE TOLD ME
WHY DO KIRAN TO BUILD FOUR
CARS?
WE BUILT THE HIGHWAY RING FOR
CARS IS YOUR OWN PARKWAY FOR
CARS.
YOU DON&apos;T WANT TO MOVE LIKE
THAT FOR CARS AND THEN WE GET
TO THIS POINT WE&apos;RE TOLD
THERE&apos;S TRAFFIC WHERE CAN WE
PARK LIKE THAT MAKES US JADED.
IT MAKES US THINK THAT OTHER
PEOPLE ARE THE ONLY BECAUSE
OF CARS AND CARS THAT HAS
CHANGED AND POISONS EVERYTHING
SO MUCH 30 SECONDS MOVING AWAY
FROM THAT IS NOT ONLY GOOD FOR
THE ENVIRONMENT BUT GOOD FOR A
COMMUNITY BECAUSE IT&apos;S A GOOD
COMMUNITY IS A COLLECTION
OF CARS, A COLLECTION OF PEOPLE
AND ALL THE OTHERS IS CARS AND
WE START TO DEHUMANIZE THEM AND
I THINK THAT HUMANIZING IN
COMMUNITY IS SOMETHING REALLY
TO DO.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
MAYOR.
THERE ARE NO OTHER CALLERS WITH
THEIR HANDS UP SAYING NO ONE
PUBLIC COMES CLOSE.
&gt;&gt; ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS
TODAY FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL
MEMBER GRISWOLD?
AN ISSUE CAME UP A FEW MONTHS
AGO REGARDING DISCRIMINATION AT
DRIVE THRU WINDOWS.
PEOPLE WANTED TO BE ABLE TO
RIDE THEIR BIKES OR WALK UP TO
A DRIVE THRU WINDOW.
I TALKED TO LIEUTENANT GOVERNOR
GILCHRIST ABOUT THAT AND A
NUMBER OF ELECTED OFFICIALS AND
REPRESENTATIVE YUSEF RABIE IS
GOING TO BE INTRODUCING A BILL
BECAUSE I THINK IT MAKES MORE
SENSE TO HAVE IT AT THE STATE
LEVEL THAN JUST HAVE IT IN ANN
ARBOR AND THERE IS DEFINITELY A
NEED FOR THIS IN DETROIT AND
SOME OF THE OTHER COMMUNITIES.
NUMBER TWO STAFF&apos;S BEEN WORKING
ON CHAPTER 40.
I PLAN TO BRING IT BACK AT THE
SEPTEMBER SIX COUNCIL MEETING
IN WHATEVER FORM IT&apos;S IN
BECAUSE WE HAVE A CRITICAL
SITUATION WITH OVERGROWN
VEGETATION.
YOU&apos;VE HEARD ME TALK ABOUT THAT
ENOUGH.
&gt;&gt; I WON&apos;T SAY IT AGAIN AND THE
LAST THING IS I&apos;M REALLY DEEPLY
DISAPPOINTED THAT COUNCIL
MEMBERS CONTINUE TO PLAY
POLITICAL GAMES WITH
TRANSPORTATION AND SAFETY
INFORMATION TO TRAVER SIDEWALK
THAT WE VOTED DOWN WAS A TRAVER
LOADING ZONE AREA.
THAT ENGINEER SAID WAS NOT SAFE
AND I HOPE WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO
EVER DISCUSS IT AGAIN.
WE HAVE CHILDREN WHO HAVE DIED
IN THIS COMMUNITY BECAUSE
OF POOR TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEERING STANDARDS AND THE
LACK OF CROSSWALKS BROUGHT UP
TO EVEN A MINIMUM STANDARDS IN
TERMS OF LIGHTING.
AND THE OTHER THING IS COUNCIL
MEMBER LYNN SONG MENTIONED A
FIFTY PERCENT REDUCTION IN
CRASHES OR AN IMPROVEMENT IN
SAFETY IF WE SIMPLY HAVE A
QUICK BUILD TRAFFIC CIRCLE YOU
CANNOT USE THE DATA REGARDING
AN ACTUAL TRAFFIC CIRCLE TO
EXPLAIN WHAT WOULD HAPPEN WHEN
YOU PAINT A CIRCLE IN THE
ROADWAY AND PUT IN SOME
BALLOTS.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S NOT THE SAME THING WE
KNOW IT&apos;S NOT THE SAME THING.
SO LET&apos;S FIND OUT WHAT IT IS BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OR DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I JUST BRIEFLY CHIME IN SINCE I
KNOW THAT THE MOTION TO TABLE
IS NOT DEBATABLE.
I WANTED TO GO SOME THANKS TO
REENTRIES COMMISSION MEMBERS
FOR THEIR WORK OVER THE LAST
FEW WEEKS.
I KNOW THAT THEY HELD A NUMBER
OF SPECIAL SESSIONS TO CONTINUE
TO HAVE CONVERSATIONS RIGHT TO
RENEW AND AS WE SAW IT
CONTINUES TO BE AN ISSUE
OF CONSIDERABLE PASSION AND AND
ENTHUSIASM HERE IN THE
COMMUNITY FROM FROM OUR PUBLIC
SPEAKERS AND THOSE WHO CAME TO
SUPPORT THEM AT THE BEGINNING
OF THE MEETING AS WELL.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD INDICATE I KNOW THAT
THERE ARE ALSO A NUMBER
OF ADDITIONAL POTENTIAL TWEAKS
AND CHANGES THAT MIGHT BE
GETTING MADE TO THE AMENDMENT
OR TO THE ORDINANCE.
I KNOW THAT THE TEMPORARY CHAIR
OF REENTRIES COMMISSION IS
WORKING WITH OUR CITY ATTORNEYS
TO HOPEFULLY MAKE SURE THAT WE
WE GET THE STRONGEST AND MOST
DEFENSIBLE ORDINANCE COMING TO
US.
I AM LOOKING FORWARD TO THE
LEGAL ANALYSIS AS WELL THAT WE
KNOW THE FULL PICTURE
OF STRENGTHS AND POTENTIAL
RISKS.
BUT BUT I LOOK FORWARD TO THIS
CONVERSATION CONTINUING THAT
COUNCIL MEMBERS ON BROUGHT UP A
DESIRE FOR AGENCIES TO
PARTICIPATE IN THIS
CONVERSATION AS WELL,
PARTICULARLY THOSE THAT THAT
WORK WITH SOME OF OUR HOUSING
VOUCHER TENANTS AND THINGS LIKE
THAT.
AND SO I KNOW THAT THE
COMMISSION IS WORKING
DILIGENTLY TO ENGAGE WITH THOSE
INDIVIDUALS AS WELL TO MAKE
SURE THAT THAT ALL STAKEHOLDERS
ARE ENGAGED IN THIS
CONVERSATION.
SO I JUST WANTED TO THANK
EVERYBODY WHO&apos;S PUTTING IN WORK
ON THIS AND I KNOW THAT THERE
THIS HAS BEEN A SOURCE
OF COMMUNITY CONVERSATION FOR A
LONG TIME AND I HOPE THAT WHEN
WE GET AN ORDINANCE TO THIS
TABLE IT IS ONE THAT IS THAT&apos;S
WELL THOUGHT
OUT AND COMPLETE
SO THAT WE CAN ALL VOTE ON THE
BEST POSSIBLE OUTCOME.
THANKS FOR THE DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; PUTTING FURTHER
COMMUNICATION CONTROVERSAL I
SHOULD APOLOGIZE TO COUNCIL.
SO ACTUALLY THE AIR SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS 20 13 THROUGH
TWENTY SEVENTEEN CRASH HISTORY
THAT&apos;S LISTED ON OUR
ENGINEERING&apos;S ACTUALLY LIST
LANE CONVERSIONS WOULD PRODUCE
WOULD HAVE A 50 PERCENT CRASH
REDUCTION AND ROUNDABOUTS A 57
PERCENT CRASH REDUCTION SO
THESE MATERIALS INCLUDING
PUBLIC INPUT CRASH HISTORY
IMAGES, ACCELERATION OF SIMILAR
STREETS, COMMISSION PACKET&apos;S
FROM 2018 ARE ALL AVAILABLE FOR
COMMUNITY TO REVIEW.
SO IT WAS ACTUALLY 57 PERCENT
THANKS FOR THE COMMUNICATION
COUNCIL MAHINA MR. MAYOR, HERE
IS A REMARK EARLIER ABOUT
ADVOCATING RESPONSIBILITIES AND
THAT SHOULDN&apos;T I MEAN I THINK
IT&apos;S CLEAR THAT THIS BODY HAS
IN THE PAST 18 MONTHS ADVOCATED
ALL KINDS OF RESPONSIBLE BODIES
.
WE&apos;VE PASSED ON THE ABILITY TO
COMMENT ON ALL SORTS OF THINGS
AROUND PLANNING AND ZONING AND
WE HONESTLY HAVE ADVOCATED
ABDICATED RESPONSIBILITIES FOR,
YOU KNOW, PROPER NOTIFICATION
AND WE EFFECT 30000 PLUS
PROPERTIES THROUGH TEXT CHANGES
TO OUR UDC.
I THINK THAT&apos;S INAPPROPRIATE.
&gt;&gt; HOWEVER, THE ONLY
RESPONSIBILITY OUR SOLE
RESPONSIBILITY CHARTER MANDATED
RESPONSIBILITY AS A COUNCIL
MEMBER IS TO VOTE ON AN ANNUAL
BUDGET AND SO I CAN SAY WITH NO
NO NEED TO HAVE ANY PRIDE ABOUT
IT THAT I&apos;VE NEVER MISSED A
BUDGET VOTE LESS FRIDAY I HAD
THE PLEASURE OF ATTENDING THE
SAY YES FAST ON MAIN STREET IN
DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR.
IT LOOKED LIKE A GOOD TIME WAS
SHARED BY ALL.
THERE&apos;S AN ART THERE&apos;S A KIND
OF A FLEX BASE THERE THAT WAS
ACTING AS AN ART GALLERY AND
THEN THERE WAS WHAT&apos;S CALLED A
SILENT DISCO ON THE STREETS
WHICH HAD THREE DIFFERENT DJS
AND YOU COULD YOUR HEADPHONES
AND NOBODY ELSE HEARD IT.
YOU PICKED WHAT COLOR YOU HAD
AND IT WAS PRETTY COOL.
AND I JUST WANT TO THANK THE
SUPPORTERS AND THE SPONSORS AND
EVERYBODY WHO SHOWED UP FOR
THAT.
IT REALLY WAS A THERE&apos;S CLEARLY
A GROUP OF FOLKS IN OUR
COMMUNITY THAT ARE FIGHTING THE
REALLY THE POLICY DECISIONS
THAT THIS BODY MAKES THAT ARE
WIPING THE CREATIVE CLASS OUT
OF OUR TOWN.
&gt;&gt; AND SO THE POSITIVITY THAT
WAS BROUGHT BY THOSE FOLKS AND
REALLY THE WELCOMING NESS
OF THAT SAY YES, IT WAS YOU
KNOW, IT WAS REALLY IT WAS
REALLY GREAT.
IT WAS KIND OF AN ALL AGES
EVENT EVEN THOUGH IT WAS A
LITTLE BIT LATER IT WENT TILL
TEN BUT IT WAS JUST IT WAS JUST
REALLY NICE.
SO I WANT TO THANK THE FOLKS
FOR PUTTING THAT ON AND REALLY
GETTING OUT THERE AND AND
TRYING TO BRING SOME POSITIVITY
TO OUR COMMUNITY.
&gt;&gt; FURTHER COMMUNICATION
COUNCIL MEMBER I&apos;M LIKE THANK
YOU.
UM, THERE WILL BE MANY
OPPORTUNITIES FOR THIS.
I JUST WANTED TO EXPRESS SOME
THOUGHTS I&apos;M HAVING I&apos;M LOOKING
AT THE COUNCIL CHAMBERS IN THE
AUDIENCE AND THERE ISN&apos;T ONE
SINGLE PERSON HERE.
WE HAVE A COUPLE OF YEARS HERE.
YOU PROBABLY GO DOWN TO ONE UM
AND CITY ATTORNEY AND CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND THE ELECTED
BODY.
WE HAVE NOBODY HERE.
IT&apos;S KIND OF WEIRD.
UM, IN THE FOUR YEARS THAT I&apos;VE
BEEN HERE I&apos;VE SEEN KIND
OF LIKE A 180 USED TO COME IN
THE COUNCIL CHAMBERS USED TO BE
AN ENGAGED ENERGIS UH MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY USED TO BE
STAFF IN HERE.
IT WAS A MUCH DIFFERENT FEEL
AND I KNOW COVID HAS HAD A
CHILLING EFFECT ON OUR
ABILITIES TO GET TOGETHER BUT I
ALSO FEEL OUR POLICIES IN THE
WAY WE DO BUSINESS HAS HAD A
CHILLING EFFECT AND AN THE
LEVEL OF PARTICIPATION AND
INVOLVEMENT THAT OUR COMMUNITY
NOW IS INVOLVED WITH AND
PICTURES WORTH A THOUSAND WORDS
.
SO JUST TAKE A PICTURE OF THIS
COUNCIL CHAMBER AND I THAT&apos;S
THE KIND OF INVOLVEMENT AND
ENGAGEMENT THAT WE CURRENTLY
HAVE OUTSIDE THE ELECTION
PROCESS.
I HOPE THAT CHANGES.
I HOPE FOR THE FUTURE FOR THE
COMMUNITY AND FOR THIS PARTY
THAT YOU CAN GET BACK TO A
POINT WHERE YOU HAVE MORE THAN
ZERO HERE AT THE END OF A
MEETING.
UM, I THINK IT&apos;D BE BETTER FOR
EVERYBODY FOR THE COMMUNICATION
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCILOR ASKING MY COUNCIL
MEMBER OF DENHA DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR OPPOSED.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;RE ADJOURNED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU